Okay.
Should be live here.
Hi.
Oops. Let's not show that.
Let me fix this real quick.
Why? Why can I not fix the stream?
There we go.
Okay,
here's the plan for today.
First, we're going to post the article.
Welcome, RM.
I promised I would post uh the
educational article at 10K followers.
So, we are going to do that right now.
The only thing I have to figure out,
I've got two articles here. This one's
4K words. This one's 2K words.
So, the only thing I got to figure out
is uh what images we're going to put on
here.
I figured I would just do this live
while a stream warms up and we will go
from there. And then after that, we're
going to work on drone things most
likely.
I don't know. Let's just make something
real quick.
uh
guide
image
52 ratio.
So like
let's do I don't know what's like what's
a good 52 ratio? Let's do like x300. So
1,500
by like 600. Is that right?
I was just going to put like a basic
like summary thing in the image maybe.
Oh, let me also go grab the uh the
puffer fish. So, of course, we're gonna
have him in there.
We'll post the article. Shouldn't take
me too long to do that. And then we will
do drone stuff for the rest of today.
Upper fish. PNG.
Oops.
There we go. There's a puffer.
How's RL coming along?
We have all sorts of fun stuff, man.
We've got uh the drone end is working
pretty well at this point.
I think that the main thing I'm going to
be working on today is like cleaning it
up and figuring out if we can get like
one policy, basically one policy that
can do all the drone stuff we would ever
want. We just have like one really
really good drone benchmark.
We shall see though.
That's the spirit. Yeah. I uh the one
thing is I always I hate having to do
thumbnails and like advertising type
work because it's just it's really
obnoxious. So here if you have any ideas
actually we'll we'll crowdsource this.
Um,
so I have this article, my advice for
programming in ML. I've got this one,
the ultra opinionated guide to
reinforcement learning.
And uh, we need to have some thumbnails
for this. So, usually I do like AI gen.
I was thinking I would just actually for
these since these are more educational
materials, I would just like put some
basic summary stuff in it. Give it a
follow.
Drop your X.
We just hit 10K on it today actually,
which is really nice.
I will put this in the chat.
There you go.
Why is Why are my notifications blowing
up?
That's fine.
Let me get into Twitter stuff here.
I'm traveling and deving. Surely there's
an audience for me out there somewhere.
Oh, yeah. It's uh
Twitter's been really good for pretty
much everything.
It's gotten us a lot of um I mean
business side has done well from there
as well. Okay, let's see here. So, what
what do I write like?
I just think I go grab like the main
topic points from the articles, right?
Why are you making the guide image in
Docs? It's not Docs. This is This is
Google Drawings.
Is Figma like actually good for like a
basic editor that stays the hell out of
your way?
Like I'll open [__] or something if I
need to do heavier stuff. Mostly I used
Photoshop before but it's not the web
version of Photoshop sucks and I'm on
Linux So,
Can I just copy all the the bolded like
titles?
That doesn't seem great.
I guess I could
Let's see if I just like start copying
these in if I like what this this does
or that I like the way that this looks.
Photoshop has
doing since Yeah, I've done I've done
photo like Photoshop since I don't know
partway through high school as well.
How's it been like to build a community
in such a non
in a non oh that is
okay a non-traditional way
there doubt you along from are there
doubt from you along the way it's really
not all that non-traditional
if you think about it
I've kind of just basically what I've
done is I've taken very traditional very
very traditional credentials and then
I've done something non-traditional with
them which is a hell of a lot easier,
right?
Cuz like I basically I've done like kind
of semiindy dev stuff where I built like
this community around this very compact
set of tools but it's also for a niche
specialized topic. um that I have, you
know, that I have a PhD in that I've
done actual academic research in for a
decade, right? So, it's kind of a blend.
You're trying to make a thumbnail, you
should try out Mid Journey,
negative space, and overlap summaries.
Yeah, I've So, I've done that. If you
click any of my articles on X, I've kind
of done a bunch of AI gen. I wanted to
have something different for this
I'm just going to try something, you
know?
I don't really want AI gen crap. It's
kind of funny. Like I really like um
like all the AI stuff is cool, but I
really don't like generative AI in most
of what I do at all.
In some sense, it's like the least
interesting part of AI to me.
at least as it is right now.
I think when you combine it with way
heavier RL than people are doing now,
generate a AI is going to be really
good. But like I'm not doing that
because it's just it's so much slower
and more expensive and crap to to do
your RL research on Gen AI instead of
just doing it in the way I'm doing it.
Hi Joseph building. Okay, I read that
for a second. It's like building a
computer with RL. Building an RL
computer. Got a 1590. How important is
CPU multicore for model training?
Incredibly important if your
environments are not like as fast as our
fastest environments are.
Uh, my spec for my highestend machine
spec that I use is a 5090 with a 9950X
uh 128 gigs of DDR5
and uh knock to a fan. Do not cheap out
on the fans.
I have
10 12 something like that desktops now
for RL and uh the Intel build sucked.
The 5090 is sometimes a very small boost
above a 4090. Sometimes it's a very
large boost. It kind of depends on the
problem. And then you you're not going
to notice the multi-core performance at
all for really fast environments. Uh and
you're going to be hard bottlenecked on
slower environments.
So pretty much if you want to do
anything at all that's not like million
step per second sim, you are going to be
very sad if you don't have First,
950X. Yeah.
So, I never run out of RAM anymore.
Like, RAM's never a problem for me. It
really depends on your SIM.
Okay. It depends on your SIM.
CL30 versus
I don't know. I haven't noticed any like
I haven't done RAM timings.
CL Wait, CL?
What even is CL? Are you referring to
the clock speed?
Oh, latency. Huh? Yeah, I haven't I have
not tested that.
64 is good. It depends on your SIM.
9950 X. I don't have an X3D. What's the
X3D give you?
They're
cherrypicked conditions.
Huh. I haven't looked at that honestly.
Like the thing is it just it depends how
good your Sims are, right?
Like how good are your Sims?
L3 for gaming.
So, here's the thing.
Congrats on 10K. Thank you. I'm uh I'm
fulfilling my promise of the article
right now. I'm just making the
thumbnails.
So, here's the thing about uh our Sims.
You want to know something really funny?
I'm not even doing anything smart with
like the vast majority of what I'm doing
with Puffer. Like, I'm writing brain
dead freshman CS level C.
It's really simple. I'm not cach like I
don't optimize anything for caching.
Well, not for that type of caching,
right? I'm I'm crashing computation but
not actually optimizing for caches,
right? Um
I'm not doing like any SIMD
optimization. I'm not doing anything.
Like literally, we could make our Sims
10x faster at least.
And actually the same, believe it or
not, not for the larger models, but for
our smaller models, we could make those
10x faster, too, if I were doing it
smarter.
And it's still the best thing out there
by an order of magnitude.
So, it depends on how much hardcore
low-level dev you want to do, right?
If you want to like optimize a sim for a
specific chip or like a specific cache
size and use patterns, be my guest.
It'll be pretty cool.
Maybe it gives you uh a big perf bump. I
don't know.
I'm not even doing anything on that
level at all, but
And it's still and puffer is still as
fast as it is.
Which basically just tells you how crap
modern programming is. Like literally
nobody knows how to program anymore.
Let's bold this.
Oops.
Or unbold this maybe.
Let's put like a
tiny little break in there.
Hey Spencer,
for C
F. What's CFD Spencer?
Is it worth investing time into data
structures and algorithms
for us in AI fields?
Uh it
so yes and if you if you're reading this
bullet point there's a difference
between knowing data structures and
algorithms and like knowing how to solve
tricky puzzles with them that in no way
correlate to things that you actually
end up seeing in the real world. Right?
You should absolutely know basic data
structures. You do not need to know 10
different ways to apply dynamic
programming.
Like generally you should be able to
implement a vector, you should be able
to implement
a linked list, you should be able to
implement a map if I allow you to look
up the uh prime numbers or whatever,
right?
But that's very different from
like solving weird tricky unintuitive
problems with that.
Let me see how this looks in the
article.
Yes.
Oh yeah, I didn't answer Spencer's
thing. Computational fluid dynamics.
Yeah, it's funny you bring that up
because I have a there's another thing
I've been looking at with that. I think
so for the most part, but it's I think
it depends.
It kind of depends. I think mostly yes,
though. We'll be sure to read the
article. Where will it be available?
It'll be on X as soon as I finish making
these thumbnails, which will be in a few
minutes.
Congrats on 10K. Hello, Finn. Welcome.
Uh, did you see the thing I sent you
guys? We can fly whatever drones. Now, I
do need to ask you guys a bunch of
physics, though. If you're around,
can I actually just link this to you
real quick?
Let me let me link you. what I did
because I need uh I need your guys input
on this
because I'm going to be working on this
today for you as well.
All right, read this this function here.
Can you guys read this function and tell
me if I did garbage with the modeling?
So the goal here is that this should be
able to represent basically any type of
reasonable drone you can put together
possibly with reducing pollution
emissions in factories.
They straight up build a sim and then
move things in the sim. Yeah, if there's
an agent in the loop in a sim then yeah
uh that's a and maybe we can fit
something. I'd happily take a meeting on
that.
Oh yeah, people are really uh looking
for this. I just posted this at
breakfast.
We'll have a look. Thank you.
So, if we can represent pretty much any
sort of reasonable drone fin,
then uh we should have a very easy time
getting this working on whatever
specific hardware.
And yeah, don't forget the meeting later
as well, Spencer, if you're still here.
I use JavaScript to put temporary
AI memories in browser local storage.
I'm see JavaScript, right?
I don't know what that means.
Oops.
What kind of hot topics would you direct
your master's thesis in if your goal is
to get published and eventually do a
PhD?
Are you in the US or are you in uh
Europe? In the US, you don't do a
master's if you're going to do a PhD.
Like in the US, you go direct from
undergrad to PhD. You don't do a
master's and then depending on your
program, they kind of just give you a
master's along the way for the hell of
it.
And it's
you're not going to get any sort of
optimistic take from me at all about
like the way that academic work is done
in uh RL at the moment. Okay. Yeah. They
expect us to I know it's different in
Europe. The thing with Okay, here's the
perspective and I think you'll get this
from the article once you read it.
We had we had hundreds to thousands of
scientists, actually really thousands of
scientists beating their head against
the math of reinforcement learning for
10 years. All right? They got nowhere.
They published a bunch of stuff that was
almost all wrong.
And the stuff that they got right was
mostly by luck.
Um,
the thing is that RL has gotten mostly
bottlenecked on
it's gotten mostly bottlenecked on
engineering and like academia is just
allergic to engineering. So even when
that's the way to solve the science
problem they care about, they just won't
do it.
So uh I don't I don't really have any
good insights about the scientific
process because it's kind of just
[__]
Like I can tell you what are topics that
are impactful in research. I can tell
you topics that are like going to
revolutionize the field and change the
world. But those are not the same things
that get science excited like
at all. Usually it's when you come up
with some like clever algorithmic
sounding thing or some like clever
formula that may or may not even be
correct is when people get excited in
academia.
Hey Sam,
I linked Finn. Um, let me link this to
you as well. I linked this to Finn
already.
Insights will be appreciated on the
modeling that I did there. The goal is
to be able to represent any type of
drone we want. I have that version
committed and it trains. So it trains
like all the different drones that can
be initialized by that function.
Different sizes, different weights, all
sorts of stuff. But I need to know if I
modeled it correctly or not.
have a look. Thank you.
I'm trying to make it easier for you
guys when you try to actually run the
thing on real hardware.
I'm going to have to get myself a drone
as well. I don't really know what to do.
Technically, I have a park in California
where I can probably just go do take
that for a bit, but I'm not going to be
able to travel with the drone if I get
one.
I don't know. Can you just put a drone
in a in your suitcase or does TSA go
insane?
Well, to get through it since I want to
do my PhD, go to engage in research.
Yeah, I guess the thing that's going to
keep you best grounded, right?
This is the way to keep yourself from
going insane in academia. Okay, so you
think of your job as two parts. Part
number one is
how do I improve the field? Like how do
I genuinely do meaningful work I care
about that will improve the field? And
part two is how do I sell it to a bunch
of bookworms. All right, literally
that's all it is.
Puffer li going with robotics or drones
or just experiment. So puffer is general
purpose reinforcement learning. Uh we do
reinforcement learning in a ton of
different areas. Drones are lowfidelity
control more than they are like, you
know, low fidelity control in robotics
is cool with us. We're doing some stuff
in this area. We do stuff in logistics,
done stuff in animation, stuff in
finance. Like we do stuff in a ton of
different areas. It's a general purpose.
It's general purpose tech. We build out
applications wherever we see
opportunities.
freezing the space between the lines.
Yeah,
I'm uh the thing is I'm kind of worried
about the
Actually, no, you're right. This will
this will work.
So, I'm worried about because like X is
going to do weird [__]
with uh the spacing
like because it'll do it'll
automatically mess with it for
uh for mobile for instance. Hello,
Imagine welcome.
Missed the last two days? Well, I was
traveling two days ago and I did a I did
some drone stuff yesterday on stream. It
was pretty cool.
Actually,
we're going to switch these. We're going
to put the puffer on the top.
Oops.
Little echo today from the microphone.
Uh, hang on.
I have my compressor on.
Well, if anybody knows compressor
settings to help with that, I mean, I
can just turn
I don't have my setup that I had in
Florida.
Like, it's a lower quality mic. It's
like a decent mic, but I I have a $200
audio setup here and I have a $1,000
audio setup there. So, like there's
going to be a difference. I'm also in
like a untreated room, right? I'm just
in a bedroom with a desk. So,
I'm in Florida.
How hot outside? Brutal. Unbearable. I'm
not going to be here for very long.
This is my residence. So, I'm just
getting uh you know doctor's
appointments and stuff out of the way
and then going to Palto for a bit.
Okay.
Download PNG.
This is fine.
Can I preview this on mobile as well?
Let me see if I can preview this on my
phone. If it like shows me,
it doesn't even show me articles on uh
on my phone
lists chat.
Yeah, that's jank.
Well,
this one I think is going to be fine on
mobile.
Oh, you know what? Actually, this is off
center.
It's like very important to center them
because
otherwise they get cropped on mobile and
a heck of a lot of people see it on
mobile.
I'm actually I'm going to change the
title to
Do this.
Let me square it up best I can.
This
Yeah, that's better.
Okay,
enough time spent on uh
pretty this thing up.
I wanted this to be done in like a few
minutes and I ended up spending
more than that on it, but
it's a good thumbnail.
And
that's a good thumbnail, right?
Publish.
Okay, they're live.
Look at that.
There you all go. So uh that is 25 pages
of educational material.
About a third of it is general ML and
programming.
uh the fundamentals are very important
in this space and I don't mean like
fundamentals as in read Sutton and Bardo
and run like learn a bunch of formalism
like just knowing basic programming very
very well and then knowing basic deep
learning very very well are important in
RL that's like the most important thing
and there's no real excuse because
there's no there's not like a
mathematical barrier to entry here all
right it's not like you need a decade of
math to understand this stuff it's just
nobody does it properly. So that's why I
made that. I made that guide because of
that and also because people have
requested it.
And then the main meat of it, of course,
there's the RL guide.
I'm going to go grab myself a cup of
coffee and then uh we are going to do
some work on drones.
I shall be right back. Don't let me
forget to unmute my mic.
sticking around for drone work. Yeah,
that is the main thing of today after
all.
It's already a 33.
This has been like a couple minutes.
That's cool.
Hopefully this does pretty well.
Like if this circulates, it'll uh it'll
help a lot of people get into this
space.
Okay, so
time to uh start on drone things. Yeah.
I don't know if it's this terminal that
causes this, by the way, but um
this machine does for some reason
occasionally just hard crash on me. So,
if that happens and the stream uh cuts
out, you'll know what's happened. And I
will be back in a second. We're making
do with the Scuf stream setup. I am on a
laptop and apparently there are no good
laptops you can buy these days that
actually work especially on Linux.
Okay. So, I did run a sweep overnight. I
don't think it did anything.
Let's just check on our sweep
Linux DRO. It's a buntu. It's just
straight up abuntu. I could technically
reinstall it because I did mess around
with i3 for a little bit. So, I could
have broken something, but
realistically, like, it's almost
completely just vanilla Abuntu. It
shouldn't be breaking.
It's a brand new Razer 16.
I really like the uh the build on this
laptop as well. It's just the trackpads
on the Razer 16s are all messed up.
Like, they all do weird stuff
occasionally. And uh I don't know. I've
had a few other problems. Some of which
are hardware, some of which are
software.
There are just no good laptops.
Literally,
like if if you want actually want a good
like metal build laptop with a discrete
GPU that's good, like there just aren't
any. Doesn't exist.
Okay, so here is the drone
hyperparameter sweep. According
to this, it doesn't work at all, which
is
interesting to say the least because we
have it training with our current set of
pipers. Something is weird there. We'll
have to look at this. Disappointing. I
did also leave this going yesterday just
to see. So, I'm just curious.
like one.
Is this 100 bill? Yeah, this is 100
bill. Oh yeah, 725 and 100 bill is
really good. Okay, this could very
easily be a soda experiment.
What was our previous best?
I mean, it's not by a huge margin
though, right? It's like pretty close
for being a much larger policy. We'll
let it run.
Learn the environments.
Welcome.
I must have done something wrong in the
setup of that sweep because as you can
see it at least learns decently well
pretty instantly here.
So that's the super like these are tiny
drones and then sometimes it'll spawn
bigger drones
and the idea here is it has to learn to
control a whole bunch of different types
of drones. So this is a big slow drone.
What is the ideal way for me to compile
within?
Oh, that's your library
in your mind. What is the ideal way for
me to compile
incurses in buffer mode?
So, do you mean as part of the PR is or
for the pure C? So with the pure C, we
could very easily make it so that the
set the um build ocean sh like that
script should just be able to take extra
compile args and then that'll work for
you. For setup ply, each individual
environment is a module. They're all
just done in a loop right now, but it
shouldn't be that hard to like, you
know, just add extra args like if name
equals this, add args that.
And you're perfectly fine to do that. As
long as you don't link that to literally
every environment. If you just link it
to your own, you're good.
Do you program in Vim?
Yeah, it's like Neo Vim with um
two plugins or whatever.
You can see the uh the setup I have.
Okay. So, let me sort of walk you guys
through what I'm thinking about right
now. For the uh the drone sim, we
currently have two different uh drone
simulators. We have the racing one that
I just showed you, but we also have
we have this swarm drone swarm sim.
Yeah, you should do that ideally.
So, obviously these guys aren't trained
to do anything,
but uh the demo that I did for this the
other day was
we literally hit 10K this morning until
10.1.
Let me find the demo I did for the drone
swarm.
Okay. Right. Like this.
Right.
So I think the thing that would like be
really impressive and really really
generally useful, right, is if we could
just get a drone policy that does
everything.
Can we get a drone policy that can make
flag constellations, that can beat human
pros at racing, that can like, you know,
follow targets? Just like have a policy
that does everything.
One big environment,
massively multitask,
different drone form factors as well.
Just make that work somehow. Yeah.
Holy retweets Batman.
I have question. What is question?
Magic.
I'll answer a few while I'm thinking
about how I want to make all the drone
stuff work with like one policy.
Is there sufficient
overlap in both problem domains for
that?
Yeah, there is. It's just a a matter of
figuring out how we formulate the task
and data.
How many RAM sticks do you have for 128?
I have no idea. Uh it's a tiny box. So,
you can go look up the tiny box v1 and
see if they have specs.
Oh, actually, no. That's the 6GPU
machine. Hang on. I do know for the uh
the 4GPU machine. It's just the four uh
the four GPU I'm all over the place
today. The one GPU machines are uh
they're just max spec to main gear
boxes. So you can just basically just go
over to main gear, max everything, go
AMD build and that's pretty much what we
have.
What if number of drones is more than
grid size
and let's say on real life few drones
battery will die
and then you do replace with newly
charged. Well, what's the application?
Depending on the application, you kind
of don't care if a few of them die.
or you expect them to.
I could very easily make it redundant if
I needed to though, right?
Like I could pretty easily make it
redundant.
one blue item disappeared.
Yeah. So, there are like many many ways
I have of making it redundant. It just
depends on how much I want to go problem
specific versus general. So, here's what
I'm trying to figure out at the moment,
right? Like most of the goals that I
have are some version of go to position
while avoiding collisions.
The ring target is slightly different
because you have to go in from a certain
direction.
It's kind of tough to do like one giant
sim.
The thing is you can really
when you have like different tasks of
the form go to position or different
patterns it's quite easy.
We have gotten it to work before where
it's truly multitask. So you just have
the same policy doing different stuff.
Explain a basic observation space like
breakout. Yeah, that's just where's your
paddle, where are all the bricks,
where's the ball,
maybe ball velocity as well.
It's just all the data.
I think at the very least we can combine
the two sims that I showed you, right?
Like the swarm sim
and the uh the racing sim.
We just give you like like an N
ring buffer maybe
and like a load task.
Hey, how's it going?
I'm going to say how's it going to so I
don't butcher your first name.
You know, one thing that would actually
be really cool, we could make a train
env or a test environ
like all of the uh the different drones
into the same
environment, right?
I'd like to train in that setting
actually.
I don't know how well that would do
though just because of um
I really need to make better collision
checks at some point. You know, like our
collision check logic is not
great at the moment just generally.
But if I scrap that for now and at least
I just try to merge these two into one
big environment, I think we can do that.
And I can just give it like tasks,
different tasks.
Okay, let's get started on that. How's
the article doing? The article is doing
very well.
How long ago did I post this thing that
it's already at 90?
That's crazy.
Well, hopefully that's a a fun time.
Oops. Let me send one quick message and
I think I know how to do this.
What's your Twitch? Same as my X. Jar is
5341.
What is protein? Protein is our
hyperparameter sweep algorithm. There's
an article covering that on my X as
well.
One generic question is reinforcement
learning like on its own
or when data not available.
Teaching a robot to walk or solve a
maze.
I don't quite understand the question.
Reinforcement learning is about learning
from interaction. So your source of data
is the thing that you're interacting
with. Usually it's a simulation.
Sometimes it's the real world directly.
We like simulations because they give us
unlimited data.
Is there a value in injecting real world
environment data into Sims? Yes, we do
that. In Puffer Lab, are Sims closer to
one ideal condition, making it easier?
No, actually the opposite. Uh, so like
this drone sim right here. Here, let me
show you this.
So, originally it was just one drone,
which is the real world. It is one
drone, right? But this is actually
randomizing every single physical
property of the drone, every single
episode.
So this here, this is like a mediumsiz
drone. You can see it's like a
quadcopter thing.
And then once it solves this, you're
going to see it's going to be a
different drone.
So this one is like a little bit bigger
than the last one. And it seems like it
handles a bit better
because we randomized the size, we
randomized the weight, we randomize
inertia. You can see this is like a tiny
little zippy drone that handles really
well and it's really small and agile.
The same policy is controlling all of
these.
Now it's a really heavy drone.
Sam and I are happy to join voice. Oh,
perfect. Because I was about to do some
stuff. Let me just open my uh
CVS braid headphones because I forgot to
bring some with me.
But I got these specifically so we could
chat.
Let's see if these work.
Where's this plug in here? Maybe
test. Yes. Discord.
Hopefully this is not super loud. We
will see.
Yeah, probably a good idea.
>> Hello.
>> No, this doesn't work yet. Hang on.
Let me get Discord to actually use my
headset.
>> Okay.
Uh, say something.
Yeah, now it works. Cool. Now that
works.
Yeah, I've been planting on collisions.
Wait, we could hear before. Now we can't
hear.
Did I break the stream?
Wait.
Oh no. I think I broke your audio.
I can hear you fine. I broke your side
of the audio.
>> Okay, now try this. I think I fixed it.
Say something, guys.
>> Testing. Testing. Okay, now you're
blowing their ears out. Let me fix your
Let me just crank you guys down. All
right, that should be that should be
better.
All right, you guys let me know if I
have it audio bounced terribly. This is
I'm doing the best I can here. This is
I'm streaming from my laptop with a dock
plugged in with one, two, three, four,
five, six USB devices. Like, it's a
whole ordeal, right?
>> It's a great setup.
>> Yeah, it's a jank. Oh, and Yaken's uh
coming as well. I wanted you guys to
chat because I think you're both messing
with similar things.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh I think
>> I was going to say stuff is important.
>> Yeah. What I was saying about the the
collision stuff is it was quite a while
ago now. It was before drone was written
in Puffalib. This was back in back in
the the gym days. But I spent quite a
long time figuring out the the maths for
proper collisions with like
it doesn't require everything to be
spheres. You can have planes and kind of
>> triangular stuff as well.
>> So that's helpful. The thing I was
talking about even simpler. It's just
the fact that collision checking is
quadratic at the moment.
>> Um
>> Oh, right. Okay. Like ideally what I
would do is I would make some sort of
>> even just like a basic op tree would do
it.
>> I just don't want to actually have to do
that because it's a total pain.
>> But I will do that at some point.
>> It doesn't really matter because
>> like quadratic is fine up until like 256
512 agents don't even notice.
So
>> anyways, let me tell you guys a little
bit about what I've been doing on this
and uh what I'm planning on doing here.
So we now have it so that you can
randomize the size of the drone and then
there's also an additional randomization
constant or factor for physical
properties. And what this does, so first
you roll the size of the drone between I
believe it's between 5 cm and
uh like 8 mters or something
five. It's it's like between a a very
small and like a mediumsiz drone, right?
And then what it does is it attempts to
estimate based on that some sort of
reasonable weight and reasonable inertia
parameters and all that and it
randomizes those a little bit. So the
idea is that you get pretty much any
sort of realistic or even somewhat
unrealistic
drone imaginable. So it needs to it
should be able to learn to fly any type
of drone with the same policy.
>> Right. Okay.
>> So
>> where did you get those? Um I saw there
were some sort of horistics about
choosing the the sizes and things. Where
where did you get those from? They just
kind of
>> freaking rock.
Yeah. Fair enough.
>> Yeah. So, some of them are kind of
obvious, right? Like mass should roughly
scale the size cubed. No.
>> Uh yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. Because it's it's if mass is
distributed evenly, trying to guess that
one
>> and then like some of the other ones
make sense and some of the other ones
are more heristic.
>> Um
>> hello. So, I basically I wanted you guys
to take a look at those and see if
they're reasonable because what we would
like to see in the sim is we would like
to see the drones handling more or less
the way that you would expect. I haven't
really seen a ton about the drones, like
actually flying them. Uh, which I we
should probably all do that at some
point, but you'd expect that the smaller
ones are going to be zippier and have
really tight turning radiuses, right?
And then the bigger ones are going to
have a lot more weight and inertia to
them. So, we'd like to see that happen
in the sim, right? That's the goal. And
then you can fly any drone with one
policy. And then the next thing I'm
doing is I'm going to actually make it
so the same policy can do a ton of
different tasks. So, like not only will
you have a policy that can be a
ridiculously good race uh drone racer,
but at the same time like the same
policy should be able to go make the
flag or like orbit in a sphere or do any
of the other tasks because they're all
some form of go to point with the ring.
It's like go to point from the right
side, but no big deal. Same thing.
>> Uh, so we should basically be able to
train it on a huge number of randomized
tasks and randomized drones. And then
with that much diversity in the policy,
there's probably going to be some
fiddling around to get it to work on the
real hardware, but uh, that's it.
>> Hey, I see it's here. Welcome.
>> Hello.
I appreciate all the work that you guys
have done, especially like just having
the actual source and being able to run
it and look at it and
change it, see things break, change it,
see things improve has been super like
useful for my learning. So, I really
really appreciate it.
>> Hey man, I am trying. It's uh
>> cool. If you've if you saw the process
of getting it to where it is now over
the last year, like first it was Python
with this emulation wrapper over
existing gym and then we went to Syon
and then we had like prototype binding C
API stuff and then we got something and
had like horrible memory leaks and then
this we got something that's pretty dang
good now. I still hate the fact that we
have as much like as many files as we
have for binding layers and this and
that, but it's Python makes it really
obnoxious to like get it any simpler
than this.
>> The binding C is like a hundred times
better than before. I I hated this
hyphen. It was just rubbish.
>> I like pulled all the code and I now
have one train.py, one eval.py, one
env.py, pi and one cbindings.c C file
just by like moving working off of it
and then I'm importing your vectorzation
stuff which I I still don't understand
what that does but all the other stuff
>> we have isn't it
>> like we have puffer lip if you think
about it there's one trainer file there
is the vectorzation file there is for
each environment and this is a slightly
annoying bit right each environment has
a python file it has a binding file it
has ah file where all the code is and
then the C file is just so that you can
play with it in pure C, right? So you
don't have to dev with the compile to
Python every time.
>> Yes, that's that's pretty much like
close to my setup too. It's it's I mean
for what it's pretty much copied to your
setup, right? So it's the same code as
well. So I mean
>> I think I think the actual sauce the
sauce is like the trainer the there's
like that CUDA thing that you've done
and then also the vectorzation file
which I think just
compiles it with certain flags or
something. I'm not sure what that does
to be honest.
>> What the vectorzation file? Yeah, like
the VC VC enth I just I can kind of
guess.
>> Oh, that's so what that is that is sort
of like a Python implementation of N
pool if you've seen that.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So it's pure Python but everything is
done through shared memory. So the
secret source of puffer lib being fast
with C is that when you are writing your
environment the observations are going
directly into shared memory that's
available immediately on the main thread
with no redundant copy operations.
>> Okay. Yeah. I actually have done
something similar with doing Conway's
game of life with a Go server that was
pushing packets to a website which would
render it and I had this double
buffering thing happening with CUDA and
uh it would just you kind of have to
control the memory to keep things really
really quick.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh so it's it is most of our stuff is
double buffered. Uh it supports more
than that. You can triple or quad
buffer. For instance, in Puffer 2, we
actually had it so you could do full
async. So, it's not even buffered. It
just takes data as it's ready.
>> We got rid of that for now in 3.0
because
>> it breaks the way that our new trainer
collects segments. Um, okay. The other
secret sauce. Did you read the uh like
the puffing up PO article? It's super
short.
>> I will read it soon. I've been mostly
just heads down.
>> Yeah, I got
>> running training running your training
loop over and over again. Changing the
environment.
>> Yeah. a training loop.
>> There are a couple things we're doing
that are non-standard that will probably
benefit you to understand. Um,
so we're not quite doing PO. It is built
on PO, but we've done our own research
and advancements. It's a generational
leap over PO. Uh, everybody claims that
and they are all wrong. Ours actually
does work.
>> Uh, and the reason that we know that is
because it's 40,000 experiments.
Yes, I've been like running it and using
it over and over again and it actually
just it's actually kind of remarkable
how easily it works. It's pretty pretty
astounding to be honest.
>> So that that article has all of the
advancements that made that possible. Uh
it's a pretty simple set of
modifications to PO but like the stuff
that actually mattered honestly muon was
a big part of it and then I think
trajectory segment filtering was the
other big part and then the other stuff
was more minor.
>> Okay. When are we getting voltage and
drone flags?
>> It's already live imagine.
>> You've got all your fans like going nuts
in the chat that you're here.
>> Well, we haven't ever chatted.
>> Yeah, it's uh Yeah, I uh
>> Yeah, I hope I'm helping. Uh part of my
intention, man. Thank you for all
>> I'm very intentional.
>> Yeah, I mean it's like when I see
something that's like sick for me, like
I'm very intentional about sharing it as
much as I can. I have a lot of reach and
uh
>> yeah,
>> you can see mine is much smaller and
more concentrated. Like I very rarely
post things outside of direct RL. So
it's like a really just like poor tech
poor technical audience.
>> A technical audience a a technical
follower is worth a thousand
nontechnical followers. And in fact, you
saturate your bubble astoundingly fast.
And I think part of the reason I don't
I've never planned to actually have this
much reach. And I think the reason I
have this much reach is because I change
interests every three months. I get like
hyper obsessed about something. Right
now it's like reinforcement learning and
like robot control.
>> So I'm going to gain some followers who
are like, "Oh, this person's posting
about robot control." And then like next
week it'll be woodworking and then I'll
gain some followers who are talking
about woodworking. But if you keep on
posting cool stuff like once Finn and
Sam actually do the symmet which is
going to be very interesting and very
fun. Um, and you guys have an actual I
mean you guys are you're literally going
to have an American flag flying over
your your your property, right? Like
this is actually going to happen. Like I
I guarantee you that you guys are going
to be successful in the next four
months. I will be seeing an American
flag flying.
>> Wrong flag, but wrong flag.
>> We'll get you guys over to here. Not
enough freedom.
>> We'll get him some good barbecue. All
right. Know you guys the food there. You
have like your beans and toast. I don't
know what that is. You'll get you some
barbecue. You'll like it.
So you guys were you guys have hardware
now like as I understand it like that
you're trying to push the drone policy
onto, right?
>> Yeah. I just I sent them a basic drone
to like start fiddling with. I'm
traveling for a bit so it's not as easy
but once I get back
>> to the farm I'll be there probably order
more drones, see if we can get multi-
aent stuff. I mean it's just you know we
do stuff in a number of different
industries. I don't really change
interests every three months. It's kind
of just all all RL,
>> but we are floating around in
applications, right? Their goal is to do
general purpose reinforcement learning
for pretty much everything but LLMs. So,
>> yes,
>> drones are a big
>> Why is no one doing this?
>> I don't understand why no one's doing
>> LLMs are the shiny thing at the moment.
>> Yeah, that's true, right?
>> And the thing is, so it's
>> we don't
>> we don't have enough graphics cards.
>> You don't even need that much. I have a
4090 sitting sitting on my floor like I
have a 490 just sitting on the floor not
even plugged in because I don't have
enough power going to my house. I have
two 4090s. I've been I've been I just
have two kernels running. One is
attached to CUDA zero when it's attached
to CUDA one and I have a script that
throws so I'm running two train trainers
like two two training at the same time
often with with Puffer Lib and it it
comes back in in one minute. It's fine.
>> We have uh we've got like 20 for us at
the moment. Uh 20 49 use total.
>> Uh we got two tiny boxes in there. Those
are the bigger machines, six GPUs each.
>> Uh so the biggest run we've done is it's
the pedabyte article. Pedabyte. Yeah,
pabyte article. And uh that one we did
640 billion observations worth of neural
MMO 3 with like a three parameter
policy.
>> You guys are the only ones doing this,
right? Like I I have never seen anyone
try to actual scale. Like this is that's
the only place.
>> This is that's like I' I can't believe
no one's done it. It's it makes me very
sad.
to
>> it's very difficult for me to express
cuz like you come into this and you see
oh look how simple it is it's like a few
thousand lines of code
>> it's really difficult for me to express
like the amount to which you had to flip
the field on its head to make this work
like puffer lib got rejected I I've been
developing this thing
>> basically since towards the end of my
PhD all the free 10 versions got uh
rejected two uh 10 got rejected from
conferences and then 20 got rejected
once or twice as well and finally just
got uh it's just getting published at
RLC. I'm no longer writing papers
because I'm sick of dealing with this
crap. It's the publishing stuff is
horrible. Like scientists are just
allergic to engineering. Even when it's
like they are directly the thing that
they care about doing just requires them
to write some basic C, they just won't
do it.
It's I was talking to a roboticist from
ETH search and he's really great like
he's really plugged in
>> and I was surprised because you
explained to me like how ML researchers
work in those fields and I was like oh
you guys like actually don't do hardware
it's like oh yeah that's the hardware
guys like those are the simulation guys
>> but in my mind the frontier is pushed by
doing the vertical integration of the
whole thing like you have the same
people doing the simulation who are
building the hardware and you have those
very same people also training the
neural networks and actually engineering
like every single thing actually
building the machines that these things
are training on that's how you get that
next like frontier and that's the same
thing that happened with ImageNageet in
like 20 whatever whatever whatever it
was 2011 or 2013 or 2012
>> that's what happened with
>> when you want this to work
I look I've I've worked with people in
like a number of different sub areas
trying to do RL and it's everybody just
underestimates the price of complexity
and now that's true in software
generally but it's especially true in
reinforcement learning is
>> when stuff just breaks, you don't get
error message. You just get the thing
doesn't train, right?
>> So like the
>> in fact I'm even guilty of this. So when
I first got in like when I was newish to
RL even a couple years in and clean RL
was becoming a thing I just thought okay
this is dumb why you just have like this
300line script and that was I've never
been more wrong about something
technically. Clean RL is a godsend and
like if you actually want to see the
person who made all this stuff possible
it's Costa. He's like the only person in
the field who I have literally nothing
bad whatsoever to say. He's just
pioneered all this stuff. And his
insight was like, what if we just do
this in the simplest way possible and
make it super hackable? And what I've
done with Puffer is try to keep it as
simple as possible while also making it
fast. Um,
>> I mean, it's like I can be like I I can
testify that it is a very hackable. I
mean, I literally just went to the
Python package, pit package, and I just
read the code and I copied things over
and it like literally just worked. I
mean, that's that's a core feature.
>> I mean, that's exactly right. Like,
you're kind of like iterating on this
like over and over again, doing newer
and newer versions and pushing um
pushing things uh simpler and simpler
and like that that's like the main
feature of like any codebase. Like I
judge a codebase for me a codebase
codebase's value is determined by how
easy is the codebase to change to my
requirements the thing that I want for
SP3.
>> Uh no this is the first time I've ever
trained RL models. I've actually so two
weeks ago I started with Mujoko and I
was I got a hot dog to to balance and
that was kind of like I wish I could go
to like I I hate Jax. I don't like XLA.
Like I don't know what the [__] it's
doing. What is it even doing? Yeah, I
don't either.
>> So, and but with this it's like I I can
understand like PyTorch functional is is
my is my [__] Um PyTorch like I can
just read it. I can understand what's
what it's actually doing. Uh the C is
like I can read it. I can understand
what it's doing. I can write any
renderer I want. I can plug it into
RLIB. I can plug plug it into like
terminal output. Like it doesn't [__]
matter. Um and I that's the most
important thing is I I can understand
it. I can I know what's actually
happening. And when I understand things
at their fundamental level, then I can
understand what's possible to do. And I
mean I'm I'm getting really excited
because I mean the thing I'm trying to
do is kind of uh it's I'm trying to uh
meme. Uh so I have a hard hat which I
bought because I was at with my kid.
>> It was right next to the Chinese place I
was ordering food from. And I want to
make it fly and I think like I can make
it fly. Doesn't seem that like
complicated to simulate. I mean if if I
can run your code and hack on your code
that's like making a a drone fly. And I
I also added I I know you guys are
working on domain randomization and I
did that yesterday. I added mass
randomization. Um, and
>> oh, take a look at the function we added
for that. So, it can now fly like all
different sizes of drones with like kind
of reasonableish estimates and
randomized masses, lengths, inertia. Um,
there's a whole bunch of stuff and it it
still flies like all sorts of different
drones.
>> It's it's kind of remarkable like I I
trained them I didn't train a new neural
network
>> and it was still able to fly ever. Yeah,
it was it's it's kind of neural networks
are actually kind of amazing. Uh, neural
networks are are are actually
remarkable. And so so I guess I'll give
you it's so small. It [__] it'll run
on a potato.
>> Yeah, dude. It'll run on a potato. Like
this is this is I don't understand any.
Anyways, um I'm very excited. Uh so I'll
give you guys some advice about this is
how I'm going to go about getting my
hard hat to fly. I'm going to 3D print a
vertical a vertical thing, which is
basically like a modulation of like some
some aluminum extrusion, right? And I'm
going to attach that to a brushless
motor so it can only go up and down. So
I'm going to put some WD40 on it. I'm
going to have a Newton meter at the
bottom of it. And I'm going to make the
brushless motor. I'm just going to send
ESC commands to it to set at a certain
speed. And I'm going to measure the rate
at which the speed can change, at which
the force can change. And I'm going to
try to model it the best I can in an
environment. And then I'm going to model
the environment and then have it like
basically randomize. And then I'm going
to try to do some tore to that. Yeah.
Exactly. Then I'm going to move it over.
And basically the goal will be try to
float halfway through the thing. And I
think it will work. Um, and there's the
way I'm going to measure the the length
that it's going to be. Uh, I haven't
figured out yet, but it it seems like it
should be that not too too difficult to
do. I could probably even do it just
computer vision. Um, but once I have it
working on one axis, then I'm going to
move over to actually get having
something fly. I feel like that's going
to be a little bit easier and it's also
going to like shorten the time where I
actually have symptoms. Like like my
goal right now is like I need Sim to
reel today. If I want my hard hat to fly
by, let's say Tuesday, I need SIM to
reel to work today. And I don't think I
can get my hard hat to fly today, I
probably can get this 3D printed this 3D
printed thing and I can get a brushless
motor and I can have it have it like uh
have it have it have it create some
thrust. Like I can try that, right? Like
and the thing I'm I'm trying to like do
is like reduce the reduce the amount of
requirements such that I get to a point.
I think like doing a I mean I could
possibly get a drone as well and um
>> simil I think we can get that to work
for you. It's like I pretty much just
have to show you the way that we
actually domain randomize stuff. Um it's
a lot harder with actual super
highdimensional robotics because you
can't randomize all the relevant stuff,
>> but I think it shouldn't be that hard
with something like this.
>> I mean I have it working with mass and
it works pretty well. Like the the only
it fails on 0. So, I have the mass
randomizing from 0.1 kg to 3.5. It works
above 0.5 to 3.5 kg. I actually just
like went out to Costco and I just
trained a model for
>> uh as long as it like I trained it for
like 500 million instead of one I can't
even remember. I just like added a bunch
of zeros to it.
>> Um so I'm going to try that and see if
that works. But I mean I don't know. And
like I'm excited too because like just
the 30 second training loop dude just
means that you can actually
hyperparameter sweep.
>> Have you tried 13 yet? No, I have not.
I'm really excited.
>> You have to get it set up properly. Uh
there's one obnoxious quirk with it that
I didn't have time to fix before 3 0. Um
that it doesn't like always work the way
it's supposed to work perfectly, but
when it does, like this is how we got
breakout speed running. Solve breakout
under 20 seconds. Solve pawn in 3
seconds. It's our own hyperparameter
tuning algorithm. Like you can read the
article on it. I actually had to do some
math for once for that.
>> Okay, I'll I'll I'll read it. And I
think that like
>> they're all pretty short and easy to
read. The way I have things pulled out
basically means that I'll be able to
like rip out what you guys are doing and
I actually just like run it on my own
thing because I have like really strange
infrastructure like
>> again like I have like a train.sh which
you know sends my code over to my server
rebuilds the Python bindings trains it
and then has it automatically like you
know open a pipelot on my on my on my on
my laptop every like uh every like x
amount of epochs and then um
>> you can do that. I feel like yeah
>> if you want to replicate existing stuff
I'd suggest at least not dropping the
core features that we have because like
it's a small set and they're really
useful like the local dashboard for
instance that we have is really useful
for fixing performance bugs. Um the
Neptune
>> that I kept like the the dashboard I
kept. It's like very very useful to just
see it like actually ripping and like
>> when I make a clear mistake it's like
the the numbers look [__] and yeah or
sorry for cursing but yeah.
>> So you don't super need over like just a
pie plot thing for individual runs. When
it's really helpful is when you have
sweeps and you need like scatters for
every hyperp because you're like doing
sensitivity analysis and stuff.
>> Okay.
>> Like that's that's what that's for. like
we there's more advanced analysis
basically that that stuff supports.
>> Um I don't like it either. I don't like
that. They all suck, but like you need
something that does it.
>> What I'm doing is I'm dumping all the
logs to a JSON line file and then I just
like open that up with like a notebook
and I just like hack with plots that I
need to. So I feel like I mean I can
generate
>> that you'd want to generate it's going
to be like last data point scatters over
a bunch of different hypers and it's
going to be like scatter of hyperprem
versus four or
>> yeah yeah
>> those like fancy plots where it like
changes colors and stuff.
>> Uh Snapchat doesn't even have that
properly. I asked for that but yeah it's
ideally you do some nice stuff with
that. I haven't really bothered with it
because it's like having the web UI is
just
>> it's nice because I can link it to
people easily and such
>> and like I can log from my server and
not have to sync stuff. But
>> all those apps suck. They're all super
slow and bloated. So man,
>> yes,
>> they're very slow and bloated. You know
what's nice, dude? Having one file that
like has everything like let me let me
read let me read what my file has.
>> I could make a one file like version of
that stuff to be honest. You could very
easily hack like a minimal wand to be
out of ray plots. I've I've already like
Yeah, I mean I've already Yeah, it's I
mean like my my my file is puffer RL
class defined print wow GUDA equals zero
and then that's a bunch of copied code
compute puff advantage abbreviate
duration utilization file logger which
is my own logger train uh and then drone
policy and then drone end and that's it
and then the train function and then the
actual uh config is like just defined in
a dictionary and that's a thousand lines
And I just run that Python file and it
rips and then I change something and
then I run the Python. It's so fun, man.
I've been having so much fun.
>> Never had so much fun here like chatting
and like asking questions.
>> Let's go.
>> Really, just super quick. Jax is
functional. PieTorch is object-oriented.
Yeah, they both suck. The thing is that
Jax is like compile default and uh it
really gets in your way a lot more than
PyTorch. Annoyingly, I don't love either
of them, but I do take PyTorch over Jax
at the time being. And our stuff is this
fast in PyTorch eager mode. Search can
reduce complexity depends on the
environment. Unclear. That's in the uh
the guide that I just posted as one of
the topics I want to look into. Um
one file for M sweet Piper. Yeah,
exactly. I miss anything else?
now a bunch of meme posts other than
that.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. I'm very excited.
>> Yeah. It's
>> Are you Are you excited, Joseph? Are you
excited?
>> Yeah. I think I'm um I'd like to be able
to get back to like the core the core
tech because there is a puffer for plan,
right? Like the algorithms can get way
better than this even and I know exactly
how to do it.
>> But I'm kind of at this point I'm doing
drone stuff. I'm doing like various
applications and I'm kind of building
the company side at the moment. Goal is
to make this thing successful enough
that I can fund like open source private
lab a little bit larger.
>> You're going to make so much money. Oh
my god. You're going to make soy money.
>> My goal is to be able research,
>> right? Like if you if you get I mean
here's here's let me give you an
example. Okay. If you take my uh hard
hat code and you open a box
>> and a hard hat flies out and it lands on
your head perfectly,
do you think I'm you could sell anything
to anyone if you can do that? If you can
get if you can open a box from Costco,
one of those plastic injection molded
boxes, a lot of them here in Canada are
actually made in America, and you open
the box and the hard hat flies out and
it lands on your head, I will buy
anything from you. If you tell me I I
I'll build $10,000 an hour, I'll be
like, I'll give you 20. Um, if you can
make a hard because no one can do that.
That's And here's another thing from
demos like that is that like the thing
is I guess they're not as easy like
visually obvious as that and that's what
we're working on. We have all sorts of
demos that if you have any idea about RL
are like nuts. Um,
>> yes.
>> It's just like flying hard hat isn't a
product like that will get you
investors. That doesn't immediately
create you a like a big revenue stream
though.
>> But how hard would it be for you to turn
that into a product? Right. Effectively,
for you to like create an actual
physical product, you would have to
raise the capital to do it. But what you
can do is you can go to a customer who
already has a bunch of capital and
you're like, "Hey, I'll create this
product for you that you want to exist.
Here's the proof of existence that I can
make anything happen." And it'll
probably take you a week after to make
that product. And creating the
production
>> doing at the moment,
>> yeah, that's mostly what we're doing
now.
>> That's amazing, man. Like I actually I'm
I'm so glad I like discovered you like
like the this is the amount of amount of
work that must have gone into this is
>> you know mindboggling like
>> the thing that I think was the most
frustrating with this it's not the
amount of work because everything is a
huge amount of work. It's just like the
sheer amount that I had to fight
academia on everything for this. Like I
I could not have made puffer lip during
my PhD even though I had an adviser who
basically let me do whatever I wanted.
It's just like it's so upstream.
>> Um,
basically reinforcement learning killed
itself as a field like
>> academics they killed their own field
>> by
essentially just being a bunch of
bookworms. Like
>> yep,
>> it they literally like they made slower
and slower benchmarks and then they
adopted like slower and slower best
practices. their dev cycles would be
like two days to two weeks to train
Palmer or whatever. Uh they had no GPUs.
The GPUs they did have they were running
at like 1% utilization and yeah the
field just died because nobody could do
any science and then everybody went over
to do LLMs.
>> Like
>> I'm crying. I'm actually crying.
>> So I'm happened was not
>> like I used to know a lot of really
smart people in RL
>> and zero of them still do. I think one
still kind of does RL and LLM, but like
zero of them actually do this stuff
anymore. I'm the only one left. I've got
like
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah, it's tough.
>> Thank you. No, thank you. Thank you for
hanging in there. Oh, so I I'll I'll
tell you a comment. So, I made a post.
It's kind of a meme. Like, I'm kind of
joking, goofing around. I still haven't
actually learned RL. It's probably going
to take me probably three months to
really like understand everything. I
said, "Oh, like I learned reinforcement
learning in two weeks."
>> Read the guide.
>> And someone someone repl
the the guide. I might actually learn it
in two weeks with a guide. Um, but one
person responded to me, "Oh, get a Oh,
really? Prove it to me by getting a
paper uh accepted." And I replied to him
and I replied to him, "Oh, I'll prove it
to you, but instead of by doing instead
of getting a paper accepted, how about I
make a million dollars with RL? Would
you believe me then?" And I feel like,
you know,
>> no,
>> I mean, I think that I could actually
make good money with reinforcement
learning. There's a lot of things that I
mean, even just like think think about
this, like you I don't know if you've
played World of Warcraft, but I did when
I was younger.
If I could get
>> MMOs were my PhD, man. I literally did
my PhD on MMOs in RL.
>> So
I if you made me a World of Warcraft
figurine that did the World of Warcraft
dances,
>> I would buy it for $500. I would buy it.
>> We did uh we did animation generation
like uh grounded animation stuff with RL
for a client.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean this the sauce is out there like
Disney's Disney's publishing papers.
I've been watching like all the YouTube
videos and reading all the papers and
stuff and you could 3D print a World of
Warcraft gnome doing the World of
Warcraft gnome dance and you could print
a World War World of Warcraft uh night
elf doing the World of Warcraft night
elf dance and like you know it it might
take like the hardware engineering like
the engineering I guess all the stuff
that the bookworms don't like doing is
the actual hard part
>> and you'll end up learning quite a lot
of stuff doing that and it's it's
totally possible if you're telling me
these Chinese robot docs can can can
handstand then
>> they totally totally
>> I'm looking more at like I'm looking
more at like big industry problems in
logistics and control. I think longer
term I really want to do more material
sim stuff because I think like there's a
huge opportunity for RL plus fastim to
unlock a ton of stuff over there.
>> But I think earlier on it's like
logistics and low low dim control are
like just really really good for RL.
>> Thank you for reminding me. I need to
put you in the contact with my friend
who's are you have you gone to PAL uh to
PA?
>> I'm in Florida for a little bit. I'm
there from like the 16thish to I'll be
at RLC which is actually in Canada. You
guys get another crack at me. Uh in
Canada
>> city
where where is that?
>> What? Uh Alberta. University Alberta.
>> Oh, Alberta. Oh yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay.
Cool. Cool.
>> Let me ask just real quick.
>> Yeah, sure. Sorry.
>> Like because you got So academia, what
university? MIT. Uh it wasn't MIT
fighting me. It was the field in
general, the publishing cycle review,
like all that. Hardest part is slow
environments. We have fixed that
completely. Very good research and to
advance RL. Yeah, we fixed that
completely. Our environments are a
million plus steps per second per CPU
core. You can train at millions of steps
per second on your own machine. He has
no idea how much Joseph failed at those
unusable codes. Yeah. Yeah. I' I've
ranted a lot. One smack on top. Smack is
slow. I'd have to rewrite it from
scratch. I could do that. I'm very
capable of doing that. I've done similar
stuff. It'd have to be through a
contract. It would be too much work to
just do on its own. Cool.
Yeah. So, more logistics, more material
stuff. I I'm very interested in chatting
with people.
>> Yeah. You know, he you know he deadlifts
600 lb.
>> Oh, 600 is very different from 400
for two.
>> Yeah. That's Oh, wow.
>> Yeah. I saw I saw
>> nearly killed me at Nurips last year,
man. I got pneumonia. Was in the
hospital for four days. Lost 18 pounds.
It's a whole ordeal.
>> Oh my goodness. See, never never go to
Nurips. just just don't even bother.
Just don't even bother.
>> Uh it's just a mess. But I don't know.
I'm getting back in shape. What I did uh
I have I'm not there at the moment, but
the the warehouse streams I have all the
weights behind me and I just
>> Yeah, dude. I saw you had you had an
American flag and actually like behind
me I have a squat rack myself and I have
a Canadian flag. So, you know,
>> I got to get my uh I got patella
tendonitis. I got to get that fixed so I
can squat again. Deadlift is back up to
like 350 four some reps though. So, I
don't know. I haven't tried to max it
lately, but it's getting close to back.
>> I I'm getting a little older and my uh
approach to weightlifting is I don't go
over what is like what a regular strong
dude would do and I just make sure to do
it for higher reps because I'm kind of
worried about just like messing my [__]
up.
>> Yeah. I honestly it's like repetitive
stuff and then just random things have
been all my injuries. Not even just
going heavy. It's annoying.
>> Okay. Interesting. Yeah.
600 pounds is insane though.
>> No, 600 is uh that's very different from
400. That's tough.
>> Yeah, I think he's doing a PhD in
material science. That's what he's doing
in Stanford. So
>> yeah, Stanford was my undergrad. I'm uh
like right by that area when I'll be in
Palo Alto. So I'm happy to chat. I don't
know very much at all about that field.
I've been kind of studying hard sciences
in my uh my spare time a little bit
trying to think about this stuff. But
it's probably going to be the case that
unless we if we find like a problem
where I just go, "Oh yeah, that's an
easy RL problem. We can just do that."
Then I can probably do something early
in material science. If not, it's
probably going to be the type of thing
where it's like, you know, do some
logistics or control first. Uh make
enough to like fund some really hard sim
development and then do that.
What I've learned is that you can learn
once you have the base technical skills,
>> you can learn anything in like actually
two weeks. I don't think material
science is that hard. Becoming an expert
in it.
>> So
>> is difficult.
>> The thing is that I would need to here's
the thing, right? It's not like textbook
stuff. It's knowing enough material
science to actually figure out if there
are sims where you can cut like a
thousandx compute corners and URL.
Right.
>> Right. Okay.
>> That's the hard part.
>> Like all the stuff in my guide, for
instance, like I didn't The stuff in my
guide is not stuff you will find in
textbooks
>> or anywhere.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Like that's the type of stuff
that just it takes a long time to learn
>> and even if I write it there, the thing
is like frankly, you really can't just
learn it by reading it because you won't
have context for why and the extent to
which some of these things are true,
right?
>> Yes. There's there's things that people
will do that like once they master
something, for example, like I spent a
whole week just setting up a dev loop
where I can run these scripts and
actually just have it pop
>> every 30 every 30 seconds because I've
been doing this for a very long time and
I know exactly what is important to like
make an astounding amount of progress.
Like that is just the most important
thing. And like I could tell people this
and they just won't even listen to me.
like they don't they won't take me
seriously because
>> they'll agree with it but they won't
actually act on it because it you'd have
to be a little bit insane to do what I'm
doing with like setting up this much
infrastructure just to get a fast dev
loop but for me it's like that is the
most important thing having a super
tight dev loop is the most important
thing which is like I mean like honestly
the mujoko train the MJX training loop
for me was taking like seven minutes or
so and it was killing me it was actually
killing me it was it was completely
>> PhD is that except your dev loop is like
three days that was the RLP PhD. That
was the state of RL in academia.
>> That's awful.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, like at that point, like I would
even if I was a bookworm, I'd be like,
I've had enough. I'm going to learn.
>> But they can't because every time you
try, like they actively punish you for
it.
>> That's awful.
>> Yeah. Because it's like, okay, well, if
I just here like one of the first
obvious things did was what happens if I
just 10x the or like 100x the batch size
for Atari, right? It's like, okay, cool.
You can actually get Atari to go from
500 steps per second training to like
20,000 steps per second training. That's
at least like kind of something horrible
by today's standards, but it would have
been good by back then. The thing is
then what they'll do is say, "Oh, you
trained it 10 times faster in wall
clock, but you used more samples,
therefore your work is invalid."
>> That's
>> you actually you have to do is you have
to run the entire Atari 57 with multiple
seeds each at the slow pace. And like we
did this once for one paper. It was over
10,800 hours just to run basic ablations
on one set of experiments.
>> That makes me very sad.
>> So yeah,
>> what are you trying to do? Are you
trying to like
>> Yeah, there you're like you're like
fighting on benchmarks that don't make
any sense. The thing that actually makes
the only
>> We were trying to like this is actually
one of the things that really pissed me
off. So I talk about research being
wrong all the time. Uh, we were trying
to see if the tricks that were
introduced as general purpose
enhancements to RL and Dreamer V3 could
be applied to other stuff.
>> Yeah, the paper's wrong.
>> My god.
>> Yeah, just like the whole paper. It's
like probably the most cited paper now
or the most best known paper in model
based RL. I I don't think that the
result is necessarily wrong, but the
reasoning behind all the stuff in the
paper's completely wrong.
>> Yeah, there's there's a lot of [__]
there's a lot of bull bull crap like out
there, man. It's kind of surprising to
me especially when I'm like come in as a
novice and I see these things that are
kind of like obvious like like the first
thing I noticed was like wait a second
has no one actually tried to scale this
stuff like that's the first I mean you
can go back through my
>> right you don't see the reason why
because you don't like if you've tried
relative you'd understand or like SP3
you'd understand
>> that that was the default
>> I mean like that's the thing too it's
like but I guess like that that's the
advantage of being a naive amateur at
all times is that you don't you're
you're not you don't have the dogma in
your brain that prevents you from asking
these sorts of questions which is
honestly like because I I kept on
posting about it like is is how I ended
up finding about you which is okay like
thank god like I'm not going crazy like
a lot of the times it makes me second
guess myself because
>> am I just being an amateur is there some
information I just don't know that
>> obvious
thing is that you don't the context
you're missing is that the qu the
questions that we had to answer to get
to where this is now right
>> so I mean I was I interned at OpenAI in
like 2018 when they were doing Dota
>> and like they had infrastructure to
scale but it was really heavy like it
was like this really heavy TensorFlow
thing with a bunch of predis and a bunch
of other crap.
>> Um it's not something that looks at all
like this and we're on the same order of
magnitude for training just training
data process as open AI5 now. It's kind
of ridiculous
run. Um, now that's
>> 14090.
>> No, not 149. That's on six. We can do it
on six. It's a huge amount of data.
Like, but the thing is nothing's ever
really been done this scale outside of
the big labs at all.
>> And we can just do it. And we can do it
on things that we can't even like we're
not even restricted to things that are
easy to program on GPU sim, right? We
can just write arbitrary C.
>> Yeah.
>> This is amazing. I mean, that's like I
can actually just like edit it.
>> Yeah.
>> And it just works. So to finish that
answer though, the context you're
missing, right? So when I was there, did
you have you seen any of my work on
neural MMO?
>> I have just found out about your stuff.
So I've like I've had zero minutes for
free time.
>> Basically, I did my PhD and like two
years before that on like what if RL on
MMOs, right? And the idea is like MMOs
are these incredibly rich diverse
environments that should give you some
sort of general interesting
intelligence, but like the entire
infrastructure stack of reinforcement
learning was basically set up for Atari.
And
>> like when you try to do multi- aent,
everything breaks. When you try to do
interesting action spaces to model like
realistic stuff in an environment,
everything breaks. When you try to do
like the observations you need to have
an environment work that way, everything
breaks. And my PhD was essentially spent
on like looking at different ways to get
reinforcement learning to actually work
on harder problems. And I came up with
like stuff in Python that made RL 10x
faster by those standards in pure
Python. I came up with all sorts of
techniques for observations and action
spaces. And like I saw a lot of things
that do and don't work. And that kind of
laid the groundwork for how I built
Puffer. And if you look at the Sims now,
>> like nobody really builds Sims in this
way because you don't you wouldn't know
to do it if you don't have that context.
>> If that makes sense.
>> Like Neurommo 3,
>> uh if you look at the policy, it's on
puffer.ai. There's a policy in your
browser that has been trained on a
pabyte of data. And that policy can do
basic trading on a market. Like they can
trade with each other. It can forge for
resources. It knows how to use tools. It
knows how to like equip items and stuff.
Uh, it doesn't have like the high level
intelligence that you'd want quite yet,
but like this is a 3 million parameter
model that does all this. And yeah,
>> it runs in your browser. Like there's
there's these things that like I just
noticed about Puffer that stood out to
me. He's like, "Oh, he's using like web
assembly and like just rendering things
to a canvas." Like that this guy knows
how computers work.
>> Like people don't know that you can like
use a WebGL shader to do a forward pass.
Like people just don't know this.
>> Like you can do there's like quite a lot
of things like that. That's what I do on
dingboard. I have an embedding get
processed by my back end. It pushes the
embedding to your front to the front end
which has like is the embedding of the
image and then I have a smaller neural
network on the browser which then does
the final leg of segmentation
prediction.
>> We're not even doing that.
>> Have you if you see propernet.h it's
like the dumbest least optimized pure
implementation that matches.
>> Yeah. Just L LTSM network L STSM
whatever
>> LSTM. Yeah.
>> Yeah. my a little dyslexic but yeah like
I just saw I was like oh that's that's
that's amazing and it literally builds
and it runs on anything because it's Ray
LIIB which is amazing. I mean, yeah,
dude. That this is uh I mean, I'm really
impressed. Like I I the thing is I I've
done this I've been doing this this
generally just software development for
money like long enough that I understand
how much work goes into having this
little code
>> like this little stuff.
>> Like I can act like the fact I was able
to read it in like a couple of days and
understand most of it. Like that's kind
of and it works this well. That's pretty
incredible. Like that's
>> Yeah, this is just like we just finished
our 3 that makes everything like
algorithmically this good. So 2 was
>> like still a million steps per second
but it was just PO but fast and we
didn't have our own algorithmic research
in there. Um 40 will have a lot more on
that I'm sure and I yeah it's just
there's been there's been a lot of stuff
with this actually there are several
places we can make this faster like I'm
pretty sure we can make the small nets
run at 20 30 million a second if we're
smart. Um, so we can literally have like
instant dev loops. That's going to take
more work though.
>> That's I like I don't think people
understand that, dude. Like the thing is
like you're saying that to me and I I
can see it and I don't
>> you just comput flops, right? It's
literally just like what's I mean you
don't even have to compute flops.
Literally just take run a perf test on a
thousand hidden dim LSTM. Okay, it's
quadratic with hidden size. So it should
be able to be like 64x faster or
whatever. Is is it 64x for 128? I
believe so. All right. It's not 64x
faster. It's like 3x faster. Well, then
there's like a gap of 20x. Duh.
>> Yep.
>> Right.
>> That's it.
>> How fun. Uh, one of the things I was
thinking about like simplifying stuff on
on my end. If I had the time to do this,
I would probably have ended up doing
this is doing the pietorch from C. Just
like calling PyTorch bindings from C and
just having everything in C. So the
environment and the policy and
everything could be just defined in C.
Uh
>> yeah, if I do that, nobody else would
use my stuff.
>> That's a problem. E
>> and it's not I wish if PyTorch actually
had C, I would consider it. They have
kind of shitty C++
like uh
>> Oh.
>> Yeah, it's annoying.
>> Yeah, Python it is.
>> Yeah, I really don't like the way it's
set up. Um I I wish I could just write
more stuff and save, but it's kind of
fine. Like
>> Yeah, it's fine.
>> Yeah,
>> it's fine. I mean, I have it working.
It's fine.
>> I I might eventually do my own like we
might do a multi like a ve back end that
is pure when we like really crank stuff
because essentially the overhead will
kill us when we try to do 20 plus
million step per second.
>> You know, the MS have to be really
really fast for that. So we can do all
that custom stuff. It's not that hard.
Honestly, the stuff that's going to be
the hardest at the moment, like the core
algorithm work is quite difficult, I
would say.
>> Um,
>> yeah,
>> that's probably the only part that's
like genuinely
because it's all the research that
everyone failed on for 10 years, right?
It's just they weren't set to do it. We
are set up to do it, but we still have
to do it. And it's not easy.
>> This is this is like the part of the
bitter lesson that people don't
appreciate. Like the most important
thing is that you maximize the time the
amount of times that you run updates.
Like you need to be running updates more
frequently. And if your dev loop is
tighter, then you can make literally
that much pro that much progress. If
your dev loop is 100 times faster, you
will make progress 100 times faster than
>> anyone else. Like even a thousand x
faster because you learn so much more. I
mean this is like one of like Elon has
this algorithm that like he posts or or
has talked about it and I think it be be
a lot shorter but like cycle time is
like one of those most important things
and like everything is actually in I
feel like everything is in service of
cycle time
requirements
>> because there's a human element too
right like if my dev cycle is long I get
bored and I stop doing it.
>> Yes. Exactly. I want to be
>> Yeah. Like in MMOs and all these video
games, there's a concept of a game loop,
right? And
>> loop a fun loop, right, is the key to
that.
>> Yes, it has to be fun. It has I be it
needs to feel like I'm gaming, you know?
If like if I have enough time to like
look over to my screen, this is also why
I don't like all this this this path
that LLMs are going where the time to
first token is increasing because you're
spending time thinking. It's like that's
enough time for me to lose the flow.
Like I want to be able to do things
instantly. It might even be faster for
me to like just code myself than wait
for an LLM to think for 30 seconds. I'll
think for 30 seconds.
>> Yeah, I So, the vast majority of my LLM
use is just Super Maven single line
completes because it's a typing buff.
>> Yes, that's all I
>> That's literally Yeah, actually,
honestly, I'm probably going to go back
to just that to be honest. I I I might
just do Super Maven to be honest because
that's my problem is like knowing
understanding the or remembering I need
a memory augmentation for APIs. I know
exactly what I want to do. Like I know
that I need a like PyTorch function that
does this exact thing and I will very
specifically explain it. I don't need an
LLM to like pontificate and like try its
best. Like maybe I'll need it to like
look over and like hey do you see any
obvious bugs like as a reading buff
maybe for the thinking models that makes
sense to me but in general like it's
coding like I just need it like instant
fast.
>> I tend to just do a lot of it by hand.
Maybe it's oldfashioned, but like I I do
think that you need to deeply understand
systems and that does take like constant
repetition and practice because like the
more you just outsource and abstract,
it's the same as what happens when you
abstract your own code, right? It's just
you lose context and stuff like goes to
hell.
>> So the way I use LLMs is a bit different
from other people. I realize I actually
read every single line of code that I
write. Like I I I have like
>> I apply I have my LLMs actually I have
it I have my own NVIM extension which
has an LLM
>> have context and output diffs and then I
can apply the diffs by pressing a hotkey
and I actually read every single line
that it's inputting and if I don't it'll
make mistakes and it'll do things bad
that are bad because you know these
these models are like modeled after the
average programmer like that's where
they want to go. They want to go to the
middle.
>> That's why I don't want them crunching
my code.
>> Yes, exactly. Like I'm not like that
type of programmer. I have to hide
things from them because they will try
to do things in a way that is average.
And I'm not trying to be average. I'm
trying to be weird. Like anyone is gonna
look at my train. File
>> bad as well. Like
>> average code is just Yeah. It's just not
creative. It's bad. It's it's it's like
you know when you turn on the TV and you
see static that's what it is. It's
[__] nothing.
>> Um so like for me like when I show it my
training.pay file it's like oh you need
to abstract this out. No I don't want to
ab like there's a reason everything's in
a single file is so I can edit and jump
around as fast as possible because I'm
looping on this thing. Please, please
stop [__] trying to quote unquote fix
my code.
>> I I've seen this so many times from like
senior engineers as well and like and
they do this in an in an RL context and
it never goes well. No,
>> it just never goes well.
>> Doesn't go well. No, of course. Yeah.
>> One of the funny things honestly is like
I can I can put all this information out
there. I can make all my stuff open
source, but like it's still just more
useful for companies to hire me to do
this stuff because it's like it's I I
outline exactly how to do it and it's
still can't follow the the map, right?
>> They're they're they're Yeah. They're
very used to the way things are done.
>> It really it requires you to throw away
the entire way that you normally do
things.
>> Yes.
>> Abstraction need when you want to scale.
>> You don't need abstraction to scale
though. Like look at this. I don't need
to scale when my code is a thousand
times faster than yours, right? Like
that prolongs the I don't need to scale
for so so much longer. Like you need to
scale instantly. I don't need to scale
until probably I've already solved the
problem because my code is just fast.
>> Yeah. People people ask me like, "Oh,
like what's your infrastructure for
Dingboard?" It's like, "Oh, it's a
single GPU server that I haven't touched
in a year. I literally have not SSH to
it for a year and it just works." What
do you mean? Don't you need to scale?
It's a GPU server. It can serve a
million users. If I need to scale, then
I've made it. I've like I don't need to
work anymore, right? Like people don't
understand how computers work and they
add these like abstractions and they try
to overengineer things. I think a lot of
it is well is like related to status and
how people look at themselves. Like
everyone wants to feel like a big
brained engineer. No one wants to be
like a Python by default. It's like
literally the act like programming
itself is almost designed to nerd snipe
you like it's some of its language
level.
>> C is a lot better for this. I think C
kind of doesn't give you the it doesn't
give you the shotgun to shoot yourself
in the foot with abstraction. I mean,
you can spend your time fixing memory
bugs, I guess, but at least you don't
like the default in C is writing stuff
simply.
>> Yes. I mean, like this is also I'm a big
fan of Zeg because it's a little bit
like more ergonomic than C, but also
just C. I I never I don't think I've
written a class like I don't I avoid
classes in general. I try to do
everything as functionally as possible.
Just like a function calling a function.
If I need state, it's going to have a
big words that says program state equals
object and then I'm going to use that as
state. Um, and I'm going to try my best
to not mutate it. And at the end of the
day, the only thing that really matters
Yeah,
>> I never got into functional at all. And
I I think it's kind of just as bad as
object-oriented.
Like I
>> I don't like mutable state is necessary
for Perf and it's often the simplest
thing as well. It's the classes. So I
actually I tried to do like full
procedural stuff in Python and the
result was just really really stupid
code and it took me a while to
understand why and it wasn't that I was
doing anything wrong. It's that the
language itself like languages force you
into a specific way of doing things. So
when people say the language doesn't
matter, it actually does because like
try to write C style code in Python, it
won't work.
>> Yeah, that's true. I really hate Python,
man. you know the language is if you
just say fine I'll write classes I won't
use inheritance I'll just write basic
classes you know it's not that different
from just if you have it's not that
different to have like the first param
of your function is a strct versus you
have a function hanging off of a class
as long as you know you don't just
modularize everything to help um
>> the thing I hate about Python's the
tooling and the interoper the
interoperability with other languages.
And what are all these questions here?
Supply chain.
That's not scale. Scale needs when you
integrate with other systems or third
party. Cool. Not only is my code a
thousand times faster, I also have a
hundred times less of it than everyone
else. It's way easier to integrate like
tiny amount of code than it is to
integrate huge amount of code because I
can just rewrite little components
wherever I need. And I can actually do
that in like an hour instead of having
to spend a whole bunch of time thinking
about this big thing.
And I do this constantly.
Isaac lab Isaac in this week. It's huge.
So I haven't This is why I've say low
fidelity control. I don't want to get
into high fidelity control unless it's
tied to a big contract because I would
basically have to really get into I
wouldn't just have to get into like
Isaac lab and Isixson to understand
this. I'd have to go into physics and
stuff, right? Because it's pretty
obvious to me that a six degree of
freedom arm does not need to be as slow
as the current sims are just because
computers are faster than that.
>> But it understanding exactly why and how
they're slow would be annoying.
>> Could you not just like look at Mujoko
source and just rip out their function
their friction like code? It's actually
pretty good code to be honest.
>> Their friction code
>> like just generally their the way they
they simulate things like I feel like
you just plug that into puffer and it
should just work. Uh, so high dem high
control should probably actually be on
GPU is the thing.
>> Okay.
>> Like and by the way, you know, when I
say it should be on GPU, the cool thing
about puffer, you can kind of just copy
paste puffer code into CUDA. CUDA is
just C. We've kind of done that. Like
did you see the uh the Puffer advantage
function? It's literally just a piece of
C code. Like there's a C++ version and
there's a CUDA version. And the CUDA
version is just the C++ code. uh which
is really just C code pasted into a
cudacle. It's the same code,
>> right?
I feel like I've So, do you ever feel
angry that all these people are
abstracting things things away from you,
preventing you from realizing how simple
and easy things actually are?
>> Yes. Which is why I've built all the
stuff around Puffer and I yell at people
when they do that.
>> Right.
I like I yell at people from abstracting
stuff. That's like the second most
common thing I yell at people for. The
only thing that I will actually really
flame you over is breaking something
critical because you used an LLM and
were lazy and didn't understand what the
hell it did.
>> Yes.
>> I I I I used to have a problem with
making mistakes. I I I have a little
trouble reading things which is like not
very good for a programmer. And I used
to make a lot of mistakes when reviewing
people's PRs or making my own PRs at
work. So what I learned is actually like
I just like sit there with a pencil and
I read code line by line before I merge
every single time because I will make
mistakes and I think like a lot of
people don't actually do that like they
don't actually read every single line of
their code and you actually need to do
that because you know not only LLM
hallucinate but also humans humans also
hallucinate.
>> Yeah I tend to yolo merge stuff a bunch
and fix it later. The one time I got
really bitten by that, somebody
introduced a like only happens once
every many hours memory colle me memory
corruption bug in the Python garbage
collector. That was awful.
That was the worst thing I've had to
deal with since doing buffer.
>> I find like C just writing things in
straight C is a lot easier to avoid bugs
like that because
>> C API. Yeah,
>> like that was the Python C API, right?
It is C, but it's like they have a
garbage collector in C with like
horrible crap associated.
>> Awful.
>> I hate complexity, dude.
>> Yeah,
>> complexity is the devil. I hate it. Why
do people keep on adding a complexity?
Stop.
>> So, actually the thing that I would
really like to have, which Have you ever
used Syon?
>> I know.
>> So, Syon is like you can write Python
and you can write C in the same file.
>> Oh, wow.
Uh it's great in concept. In practice,
the compiler is a buggy mess and like
gives you tons of crappy errors. But if
you had that but good like the ability
to quickly switch between something for
like you don't want to do stream
processing of C for instance like just
like basic. It's a pain in the ass,
right? You don't care if it's fast, you
just want it to work. You want it to not
be a bunch of lines. um easily switching
between these two things would be
way way better, but it just doesn't work
at the moment. Like we have to go
through the Python C API, which is a
bloated buggy mess.
Every time you add something from the
outside, it's usually a buggy bloated
buggy mess. Like dependencies are really
bad unless you can actually read all the
dependencies and change them yourself.
>> Yeah, it's I mean it's tough. It's like
at some point it's like I don't want to
write my own graphics engine, right? I
want a lightweight one. Okay, Ray Ray is
perfect. It already exists.
>> I mean, the thing about Rayb and I think
there's also soal and all these like
graphics libraries is that they're super
lightweight. Like you can actually just
go read the header files like
>> Yeah, that to me is less of a dependency
than just having someone's code as
reference, right?
>> Just fix for loops in Python. Yes,
>> there's not really a way to fix for
loops in Python. Like,
do you see every do you see? If you go
look at the Python C API, you'll see how
much happens every time you do any
operation in Python at all.
It's just always going to be slow.
Like literally every single thing every
variable no matter what it is gets
wrapped in like a big pi object where
like everything is abstracted so that
everything can be type independent. So
you have you know your dynamically it's
just a mess.
And oh and then one of my big pet peeves
is like people try to like reintroduce
types into Python. Freaking hate type
Python typins.
>> That drives me nuts.
>> That just doesn't work. People keep
trying to PR like types into puffer lab
as well and just no I'm not doing it.
You can't make me
>> you can't make me. They're not enforced.
They just add stuff. They're not even
enforced. All right. And they don't make
the code faster.
>> If you want
>> I feel similarly about like I feel
similarly about TypeScript and
JavaScript. Just use JavaScript.
>> Yeah. I don't like TypeScript at all.
>> Think about like how how sick how sick
in the head would you have to be to come
up with an idea like TypeScript? We're
going to have a language that compiles
to JavaScript. Yes. Which is a like
>> what is
>> Yeah. Uh the people who suggest this to
me as well. It's like there are certain
people I know who have built impressive
things but just have a very very high
density of just horrendous engineering
takes. So it's like yeah you built the
thing it took you five times as long and
the code was 10 times as complex. You
did build the thing. So, you know,
you're smart, but you've kind of nerd or
sniped yourself into a way of building
things that's just not good.
>> I think the difference between people
who end up doing that and people who
really avoid doing that is people who
are really trying to get things done as
fast as possible. Like actually just
trying to get the actual thing done as
simply as possible and as fast as
possible and like maintain that speed
throughout. Like you end up going
towards simplicity, simplicity and
avoiding complexity. what Terry, you
know, King Terry the terrible had said
uh about like you know uh people like
complexity because it makes them feel
like really smart and you feel like a
genius but uh simplicity is like
actually what you people you know real
real smart people appreciate
>> it's the thing is simple is not easy
like
>> do you know how long do you know how
much work it was to get even just like
the
>> the puffer trainer to the length that it
is that's like the fifth generation of a
confix system
>> even for instance right? Like why is it
any files? Why isn't it YAML? Why isn't
it, you know, uh like some sort of like
uh static spec thing where you can't
make errors with it? It's this is
literally the fifth generation of stuff.
>> Yeah,
>> I think that system was harder to make
decent than like some of the actual RLM
puffer.
The way I have it set up is I have a
Python dict. I've actually ripped out
the config system and I just like have a
Python dict which is the config and I
just pass it to the trainer directly.
>> The so the reason here is we do
algorithm research. Right.
>> Right. Okay.
>> So when we're doing algorithm research
like we need to be able to run stuff on
tons of different environments.
>> Right.
>> Because like there's hold the algorithm
constant and then there's hold the uh
the environment constant. These are two
different.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So like being able to quickly and
simply test the current thing, whatever
state it is in on a ton of different
environments is really important.
>> Yeah. Like keeping it modular like that.
>> Yeah. So I don't like it. I don't like
it either. Um we've tried like just pure
dictionaries before. The any files have
just been better for us.
>> Okay.
There's also like
we have it such that there's like a
default file and then anything you put
in the ins just goes on top of the
defaults as well. So it's like most of
the time you just need a stub.
Yeah. I don't know. Maybe it'll maybe we
will eventually find a better way of
doing all this crap. There is still
there are too many moving parts still.
But
>> part of my motivation too is like I need
to see everything and actually be able
to step through it to understand it
because this is all new to me, right?
Like I'm I'm running pip plots on these
things these like I don't really know
what entropy means in the context of
reinforcement learning to be honest like
model is like it's how much variability
there is in the actions it is taking
interest
>> like how if it's is it always is it
always perfectly confident and it's
always taking the action it's predicting
or is it like sampling from no is it
like ah yeah half the time I'll do this
half the time I'll do that right
>> yeah okay that makes sense
>> RL can learn you can learn stocastic
policies.
>> I'm going to print all your stuff and
then all of uh
>> you're going to have to get the
references if you're going to take that
with you because it's like it's a
heavily referenced article. So, it's
first of all like most of my other
articles and then like a decent little
stack of academic papers as well.
>> Okay, got it. I I mean I'm just going to
print a a giant stack. I mean I'll be
camping. I won't have internet. I'll
I'll actually read everything and I
still need to make progress on this. Uh,
I need to go. Makes sense.
>> The uh the academic papers will take
more work, I think, to read through.
>> I've I've read I've I've read I've I've
read a lot of academic papers, so I can
kind of get through them pretty quick.
It's just the the fundamentals for RL I
don't have yet. So, I'm going to read
some books and just try to get the
fundamentals down.
>> The most paper is open. Yep. See you
around. Thanks for dropping by, man.
>> Yeah, I appreciate it. And uh hopefully
by the end of this month I'll have a
flying hat on my head and I'll I'll try
to
>> Hey, let us know with like the beta beta
FOV stuff cuz we're trying to do the
same thing with that at the moment.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh have you guys ever thought of getting
images in uh the training loop? Have you
>> really really slow? What we were going
to do is we were just going to do some
basic perception thing to like, you
know, find where rings are or find where
targets are. Just basic ass classic CV
stuff,
>> right? Because it's images slow you down
immediately thousandx minimum.
>> That's the move I think man. I think
that's the move to be honest.
>> What is
>> like generating the images of what
you're what you're about to do. Like for
example like oh like you get a bounding
box and you set the goal to like make
the make the bounding box bigger if you
want to hit a target
>> and you just like noise it up or
something in the simulation and then
>> it's state estimation, right? It's just
state estimation.
>> Yeah.
>> We're going to do that. It'll be fine
for this. It's not great for robotics.
Often times they have images there.
People do like GPU batch renders like
tens of thousands per GPU but that that
ain't millions right
>> yeah what are the marona I think I saw
some some repository called marrona
marona
>> marona yeah Brennan I know him he he
does good work but it's sometimes
actually some of their stuff they can
get rendering hundreds of thousands but
it really depends on what you're working
at
>> okay
>> that's what I would do though if I want
if I had to go that route I'd basically
go find what is the minimal batch
renderer I can use and then I will keep
the logic in C and I would basically
just take the state from C and then in
like before it goes into the neural net
already on the GPU it goes through the
batch render to produce images that's
what I do
>> okay yeah and I think what I'm probably
going to end up doing is figuring out
how Madrona is doing that and just like
implement it myself
>> because I want to see like how it would
behave with an image embedding model
feel like it would just Well, to be
honest,
>> maybe
>> I don't know what I'm talking about.
>> It's You're going to take a 10x it in
the best case. I will tell you, you're
going to take a 10x perfect in the best
case.
>> I will buy 10 times more GPUs.
>> Yeah, that's what you'll have to do.
Yeah.
>> All right, man. I really appreciate all
the hard work and
thanks for dropping by.
>> All right. Peace.
>> Bye. That was fun. Um, how do you do
testing? abstraction.
We only test like very small, we don't
have a huge amount of test stuff,
frankly. We have very simple code and
then the super fiddly bits that we know
are going to have issues, we write some
like extra stuff on that. We don't even
like have them in CI or anything though.
And it's still like you can look at
Puffer Lib versus other stuff out there
and it's not like Puffer LIIB is super
fiddly and always broken where the other
stuff is and it's like stuff is broken
at least, you know, at most as
frequently as it's broken in other
places.
Good combo. Thanks, Jason. Yeah,
I seem looking for GPU deals. Yeah,
that's why enterprises use attraction.
It's bad. It like I don't care what the
raising is. It's bad. Like
in RL it's especially bad.
Like they write broken they write code
in a way that it's going to break for
the purpose of testing it.
Like literally one of the most common
things that I do when I'm working on new
stuff in a rail where I have a big repo
that's like just a mess is I take all
the files, I paste all the files
together, and then I just start deleting
redundant bits recursively. And usually
I end up with like a tenth of the code
that I start with cuz it's just all
crap.
We were gonna actually do drone stuff
today, right?
>> Uh, my notifications are blowing up.
Okay. The general guy is here.
And this one's here. Cool. That's doing
quite well.
Drone stuff time. Yeah, drone stuff
time.
10.2 already.
It's crazy.
A lot of growth this week. That's good.
>> I think that was at least 100 followers
in in one stream, which is kind of
crazy. Yeah, it was uh I mean a week ago
we were at
I
>> think 8,000 something.
>> Yeah,
>> it's going to bring a lot of new people
to RL.
>> We need help with this stuff, man. Like
we definitely need help with this stuff.
>> We're going to eventually need people
who can help on the side at some point
or at least people who can help with the
other stuff I'm currently doing so I
have more time to do outgo stuff. But uh
>> yeah, I like I'm realistically in order
to make RLB where it needs to be, I'm
gonna have to do a whole bunch of
algorithm side work. But like for Puffer
to be where Puffer needs to be, I need
to kind of make some solid applications
of this first.
So that's what I'm doing at the moment.
>> Yeah, very say like we are going to get
some research benefits out of all these
applications as well, right? But it's
the thing that we're not going to get is
like the core
the core algorithm uh work. That stuff
is
usually much better done in isolation.
What's the other stuff? If you look at
um the guide that I posted today, the RL
guide,
sample efficiency is a big question
right now and it's probably the most
covered topic in reinforcement learning,
but the coverage is all really bad. So
essentially there are minimum of three
competing ideas on how to do sample
efficient learning and it is unclear
uh to what capac like to what extent any
of them work if they work how they work
why they work it's off policy learning
is one model based is another search is
another there probably some others that
I haven't even thought of in there
it's a whole mess
If I had to guess, I think it's like
it might even end up being problem
dependent, frankly. I don't know.
But we I think even with the stuff we
have now, we can solve like we can solve
really like important problems in a ton
of areas with what we have right now.
Are these algorithms that currently
exist or new new ones to be discovered?
So, what it probably is, frankly, it's
going to look like me going through the
last seven years worth of deep mind
research. Uh, ripping out all the fancy
bits that make the algorithms seem cool
and keeping the bits that actually make
the algorithms work and then running
tens of thousands of experiments to test
all that. That's basically what I did on
PO for uh the 3 release that made it
work. It's going to be that at much
larger scale though.
Is there a summary of different complex
topics and
layer counts and training time used?
Complex topics, the three that I just
mentioned with references are in the
guide that I posted today. Uh layer
count and training time. That's all
that's like almost completely unexplored
in RL. Uh we just don't use deep models
almost ever because they don't work and
we don't really know why in general.
To be fair, we also know that we don't
actually need deep models to solve
ludicrously complex problems in
reinforcement learning. And I think
that's also unclear, right? Like shallow
models kind of don't work in other areas
like to solve perception tasks for
instance, like you really need deep
models. Um, but shallow models solve
ridiculously hard problems in RL.
Wait, did Yaxine post like 10 times
while we were having that conversation?
I think he did.
Oh, no. Okay, he's been That's all since
then. Holy.
That's funny.
Cool. We don't use deep models because
too many local solutions.
See, that's not true
is the thing.
What does too many local solutions mean?
I mean, local optima, those don't exist.
That was a 2015 era deep learning nerd
snipe that we thought that our stuff
didn't work because of um local optima.
Saddle points do exist. Momentum fixes
that.
Local optima don't really exist.
Uh they do exist in problem space for
reinforcement learning because it's a
low dimensional problem, but that is
independent of the architecture used.
That's the technical explanation of
that.
Uh, I think he wants feedback on that
PR, but we're going to do drum stuff.
>> Finn, Sam, are you still here?
>> Uh, yeah, I'm still around. I think Sam
will be, I don't know, maybe 45 minutes
and he'll be back.
>> Yeah, I know. we sort of got
sidetracked, but uh
>> that was a cool conversation and I think
a lot of people will get interested in
uh some of the stuff we're working on
from that. So, hey, maybe we'll even
have more people helping out with this
stuff.
Yeah,
>> I guess one of the things I should say
in case we have new people here is if
you have experience in another field, uh
that's also really helpful with RL
because we're looking for all sorts of
problems in different fields uh where
people just kind of haven't thought of
building sims and trying RL. We built
lots of sims.
Okay. So, the thing that I was going to
tell you guys on the drone stuff is
if we just make every problem some form
of go to target, that should at the very
least cover the rings, like the ring
task and the um all like the flag tasks
and other things. So, what do you guys
think if I make one big sim with that
where I try to keep the complexity as
low as possible? I have like the drone
stuff independent and it basically you
can just load in different tasks, right?
So like you have an end that can put
rings, it can put targets or whatever
and we just try to do that.
>> Yeah, that sounds good. It'd be it'd be
a lot better than having 10 environments
with marginally different tasks. That
wouldn't be great.
>> Environments. Yeah.
Well, I don't always know, right?
Sometimes it is better to just have
separate stuff, but I'm thinking like do
we just get better
better results out of um
training on more different stuff or
should we like only train on racising?
>> I see. Uh
>> yeah, I don't know. That could be cool.
>> It's usually the case that like when you
have a few different tasks, it is
initially harder than one task. Um, but
then when you get like more and more
training diversity, it actually makes it
easier. So the best number of tasks to
train on is either one or as many as
possible,
>> right?
>> If that makes sense.
>> That's usually how our like curriculum
learning RL works,
>> right? It's kind of like, you know, if
you just try to like learn to enough of
a field to solve one problem, for
instance, that's generally pretty
doable. Uh or if you try to like if you
want to solve like five problems, then
you're better off. You just got to learn
the field, right? It's it's one of
those.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> In terms of the the sim to real stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Um me and Sam are we're a little bit
busy for sort of like the next two
weeks, but then after that we've got
like an entire month of just nothing. So
most of the stuff will probably be done
in sort of late July, August.
Um, but there's there's a bunch of uh
physics stuff to be added until then.
Should still be busy.
>> Yeah. I mean, I'm going to try to get
like some really solid Sims and then
it's just a question of how hard is it
to throw on the hardware. I mean, it's
it might be the case that we just throw
the commands on the hardware and it
works. Uh, I don't know. The perception
stuff is going to be a little different.
Uh, I'm probably going to have to get
myself a drone kit as well to help work
on that because we do need to do state
estimation of some type, right?
>> Uh, there was a paper I read from Zurich
where they just use the camera, but but
yeah, state estimation probably not
hurt.
>> Well, if you learn end to end with the
camera again, your training gets a
thousandx slower.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Right.
>> So, that's just not fun ideally.
trying to think like what's the simplest
thing we could throw together to make uh
to make it work initially. It's probably
just like the hoops or whatever because
the hoops are almost like QR codes,
right? It's kind of like an offtheshelf
offtheshelf thing.
>> Mhm.
I don't know how you get like distance
to those though from K like it does a
depth. It's like a depth estimation as
well, isn't it?
>> Yeah. Hello. I'm back.
>> Where's
this
>> with the drone stuff? Like
>> I think so I can get us one sim that
does this forming and does your stuff
and it'll be really easy to load
specific tasks in or to train all the
different tasks. like I can get a full
demos out of that for sure. Now the
question is going to be to get it on the
real hardware right there two things
right there to real gap and then there's
the perception part to actually estimate
state.
>> Yeah.
>> I I think the the latter would probably
be the more difficult part but I'm not
sure
>> the state estimation.
>> Uh yeah.
>> Yeah.
I mean,
>> what's like the most basic thing we can
do for that?
>> I mean,
>> just
a drone kit you're using. Is it possible
to 3D print drones?
Order a bunch of batteries? You need
motors and cameras and sensors and like
you need chips. The only thing you can
print is a frame.
A frame isn't even expensive. Like at
that point, you're just you're just
causing yourself a whole bunch of
assembly work or uh not saving really
any money or anything. The only reason
we would like 3D print stuff is if we
wanted to play with different form
factors or something.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah.
>> Basic estimation.
>> There was there was that paper you sent
me this morning as well, Finn. The It
was from Zurich again. What was that?
>> Uh what? The champion level drone racing
one.
>> No, the the first one. The
>> Oh, yeah. The perception only one.
>> Yeah, that seemed pretty cool.
>> I mean, if we could
>> It's so hard. Like getting that sim to
real is way harder, I would think,
>> is the annoying bit because like
when they do that in robotics,
right, they like
They have a pretty clean deployment
setup for it. There's not really a bunch
of visual noise
getting a sim to real when like you have
a realistic moving background and such.
>> That's
>> Yeah,
>> I think that's going to be pretty
obnoxious.
It's not even either.
>> Ideally, you just segment the the image,
right? And then it's kind of doesn't
really matter what the background is.
I mean, you can do that.
>> You really want to just know where
>> you want to know where the target is.
>> Like then at that point, you're not
really doing you're not doing state
estimation at all. You're doing end to
end.
>> Yeah.
>> The only way we could do that, right,
it's it makes the project much more
complicated. It's thing I was telling a
which is the batch renderer.
It makes it a lot more complicated.
I think my preference here would be
is there like a really basic state
estimation thing that we can do to get
something to work first?
Uh yes is uh let me see what
>> I mean isn't best case scenario
it the kind of
sim to real gap is so small that it
doesn't really matter but I think that's
kind of
>> it's not the sim to real gap issue right
it's the state estimation problem
>> so you need to know where the targets
are right we're training on like the
target
>> you need to know where the target is if
you instrument the targets. It's easy,
but that's cheating. Now, you can
actually when we doing
>> I was thinking of something else.
>> We actually like the flag demo for stuff
for instance, like that stuff, we can
actually just cheat because
all we really need to know is where all
the drones are
>> and they're allowed to talk to each
other, right? That's not cheating.
They're all your drones.
>> Yeah.
Well, the the kind of
I suppose easy but very expensive way
they they did it before. Did they did
they not just have like 50 cameras in
the room where they were?
>> Yeah, one of their papers did, which is
kind of kind of crazy.
>> Just had like a massive warehouse filled
with cameras and the hoops and stuff and
it could just track them.
>> Yeah, that's super cheaty though. like
>> Yeah.
>> That's not going to work anywhere else.
>> Yeah. It's kind of a bit silly really.
>> I think accelerometer is probably the
way to go.
>> I think 65 crypto.
I mean, at that point, you just like
record the positions of,
you know, all the targets and just give
it to the drone, right? Like there's no
reason to even have any perception.
>> Yeah,
>> we could. Well, you don't know your
absolute position is the annoying bit,
right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> You can like
you have to integrate from your starting
position. And I'm pretty sure that type
of stuff is like really noisy, right?
>> Yeah.
>> If you just like double integral your
acceleration, it's really noisy.
>> That that's what you were trying for
our like original drone before we had
the the new one and it just didn't work
at all.
>> Drone communication might be cheating if
you consider somebody might be trying to
interrupt the signal.
Um I don't know like
How many things are there? I guess
technically they can jam the radar
without like impeding the drone
if you want to think of it that way. So
you can interrupt communication and
still leave it online. I guess
technically
state the state estimation thing is
is tough.
I really don't want to do the the batch
render thing just on our own, you know?
Like I don't want to just like do the
batch render to make a cool demo work,
right? Like the batch render thing is if
we want to do perception based stuff
that will be part of a larger project in
my mind.
>> Okay,
>> depth camera. Yeah, we can get like a
depth sensor I guess. But I don't know
how well that works cuz like okay, you
have a camera and let's say you're
basically doing QR code stuff that's off
the shelf, right? because it's
the targets.
They are painted with something so you
can recognize them. That's pretty
standard,
>> you know. Um, ages ago, Finn, that like
depth perception thing that Armon had
running on his laptop.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> How many frames per second was that?
>> Uh, not enough.
>> Not enough. Okay.
>> I think it I mean on our computers,
which is not ideal, obviously. It was
like what? Maybe 3 FPS.
>> Okay.
>> There are there are faster ones, but
>> Oh, you mean like the camera based
stuff? Yeah, that stuff doesn't work.
>> Yeah, I've worked on that before. That's
that's way too slow.
>> I mean, tech like I maybe if you really
tried you could like get a version of it
inference only. You're not going to
train on anything coming out of that
though.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.
I think um I sent
>> Sorry, go on.
>> I was just going to say I'll put a
there's a there's a kind of a cool
graphic from one of the Zurich papers
that I've just put in dev.
>> Mhm.
>> Actually send about how they do their
state estimation.
>> Is it like super complicated?
>> Yeah. I mean it's complicated enough but
it would be
>> great bit of a pain.
>> I'm saying image.
>> It's probably
>> I mean we've kind of got to get it
working on like
>> is it strings before we
>> Yeah, that is because it's trained
right. It's like they're they're kind of
just putting this calman filter. Yeah.
So they're training on
>> essentially down sampled images. This is
basically the same thing as what if we
just train on images with some
pre-processing. So that's super slow.
That's not That's not exactly state
estimation,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
Is there if we instrument the things, is
there like a uh
how hard is it to get a like a a
proximity sensor that gives you a
reliable estimate of how far you are
away from another sensor?
>> How was it done?
>> I I don't think it's exactly the same
thing, but um they used a
uh it was on the the drone websites when
we were buying the parts. It's called
the Intel Real Sense camera. Uh, and
then they just like had that connected
to some onboard
compute thing.
Uh, I I think it's basically just a kind
of an infrared based
um depth sensor pretty much.
infrared base depth sensor.
>> Well, you need to also know that you're
looking at the targets.
>> Yeah,
>> but I I got the gist that going down the
the route of these Intel cameras means
you'd need to buy one of those kind of
Nvidia compute modules as well. And it's
just a a very expensive rabbit hole.
>> You know, initially guys, we could just
punt on it for now and just be like,
"Hey, let's get the thing to run on the
real drone." Um, we have relative
>> we have relative targeting, right?
>> So, what we could do
>> is we could just make a thing, right,
where on your laptop, you can drag
around the target or whatever
>> and it'll just go to that
>> because you basically you tell it, "All
right, the target's this far away."
Um,
you just do the basic integral or
whatever. It doesn't collapse because it
gets reset every target.
>> Yeah.
>> So then like that should basically let
you control the drone and it should be
able to go from like its current
position to any other position pretty
easily. And like we can already start
throwing together some demos before we
have to do perception. Like my highest
priority here is to just get get the
neural net running on the drone in a way
that it's actually flying correctly,
>> right? Like the perception thing is kind
of whatever. Like in my mind, this is
this is like all the application
specific crap, right? Like I think that
even before we touch perception, we
should be able to come up with something
cool enough
Like yeah, like what if we just give it
the
if we just like give it the course for
instance, right? Like literally just run
the exact policy. It's going to do all
sorts of cool aerial maneuvers, isn't
it?
>> Mhm. You'd hope so. Yeah, that would be
>> I'm pretty sure for these drone racing
things, their their policy is literally
just on that one course anyway. So at
least then we know that we're at least
as good as
>> as the current best is
>> well depending on how what the gap is
like what you could do is you could just
like set it up and measure right like
put a couple of hoops around no
instrumentation no perception and like
if the thing is accurate it'll just fly
through them if they're in the same
position as it thinks. I'm sure that the
like it'll diverge eventually, but
>> my priority here is I don't want to make
you guys do a bunch of boring ass
annoying perception work. Like the goal
is to get something cool running on the
bot as quickly as possible. I think
that'll be way more interesting for you
and that'll already make like a really
cool demo because you'll get like just
flying the horse in midair will get you
all sorts of like interesting aerial
maneuvers, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I think that that
should be really cool. And then once we
once we've got some cool stuff, then we
could we'll know if we need well what to
what level we need perception.
>> I almost wonder well this probably be a
pain in the ass if you can just like
throw some AR goggles on and like see
the course like have it like run an AR
course so we don't have to actually
Right.
>> Yeah,
>> that would be kind of cool.
Well, we've we've kind of got a a good
controlled environment to do the the
drone in because we've um like booked
out the exam hall basically which is
like 500 person capacity. So, we've got
a massive hall to fly around in at
speed.
>> So, we can probably
probably even like stream some of it
from from our phone or something just so
>> that be awesome. You guys can see
>> infrared probably won't work due to
distance constraints. Maybe more LAR.
Yeah, we don't want to really get into
that crap before we can avoid it, right?
Like
>> that sounds cheap.
>> The goal of um
the goal of a lot of what we're doing is
to really showcase the tech and then
like application specific tie-ins to
tech. We can do that as part of like
formal engagements with companies and
clients and stuff, right? We want to the
core stuff that we do on our own is
mainly like keep it as we want to like
show off as many cool things as we can
that are like close to the tech. And I
think this is this qualifies because
this will be simil
this this is sim real like flying the
course in the air. Um
the perception is a completely
independent problem, right?
It's a problem we know how to solve if
we had to, right? There are two
different approaches. There's state
estimation. It's literally been done
already, right? It's just annoying.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and then there is like hyper batch
simulation, right? It's hyper hyperfast
sim for uh camera. That's like another
thing you can do.
>> Yeah.
It shouldn't even be that crazy
expensive I would think for something
like this.
>> Like Madrona, you probably with Madrona
you could get a couple hundred thousand
frames per second in order to scale
GPUs, but like we literally don't need
to do that initially at all. It's just
like get the drones running around doing
all sorts of crazy stuff autonomously.
Could
you find a USB A to A cable Finn or
shall I uh
>> get one ready to
>> I mean I can look in like 10 minutes
sure.
>> Okay.
>> I think I've got one.
>> I think that's the the last thing we'll
need.
Oh. Um are we we still don't really need
to get video back from the the drone's
camera yet, do we? cuz that was the kind
of the component we skipped out last
time because there was no no stuff I
think when I looked the other day at the
moment.
>> Yeah,
>> I think if you guys can just get and
this way it's not going to take months
as well. I think if you guys can just
like can we run the code on the drone?
Can we get it to fly around and do like
what looks like running the course? Just
like watch on your basically just if you
can see on your laptop like this is what
it thinks in the sim, right? Right. And
then you can like physically look at
what the drone is doing and see that
they're it like looks like they're doing
the same stuff, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that would be really cool.
>> You can quantify.
>> I'm hoping we can
we can well hopefully we can get the the
model running on the drone like kind of
same day. I'm hoping kind of the actual
hardware part of it shouldn't be too
bad. Um, and all of this drone firmware
plays nicely, but we'll see.
>> Yeah, askine about the there's like the
general software that's used for a lot
of things. He's played with that before,
I think, from different on different
problems.
>> We may have to mess around with what the
actions look like.
I don't know how nicely the drone will
play with just giving it RPM commands,
but
>> what do you usually give it? It sounded
like you can do that, but
>> yeah,
>> it's a bit
>> slightly less standard.
>> Yeah.
>> But either way, it should be fine.
>> Yeah. I'm just That's the thing I'm kind
of slightly worried about because when
we were doing it
uh with the old drone, simply just
sending commands to the drone
programmatically was pretty difficult.
just
>> Yeah. So, the hope is that it's not with
this. And if it is, we'll have to do
something else.
>> At least the hope is that this one at
least the hope with this one is that
it's not going to break in five minutes
at least.
>> Yeah.
>> Like because the the ones they use for
racing, they have unshielded
rotors.
>> So,
like you crash that thing at any speed
once, it's broken.
Well, the the the transmitter we got
this time is kind of um you can just use
with any drone and it sounds like the
transmitter we've got is good and is
also pretty good for sending
programmatic controls. So hopefully as
that's kind of the
the key link this time, the actual drone
shouldn't really matter. It's an Johnny.
>> The guys are doing pretty well already.
>> We were looking at that earlier. the the
list of the list of papers look good. I
need to I need to have a look through
that and see if there's anything I've
missed out on.
>> What list of papers? Oh, the ones Yeah,
that's like general
there's general RL stuff in there. It's
really the best way to know uh
>> to like learn this stuff. It's not it's
not the uh the material that you'll find
pretty much anywhere else. Also,
>> it's like I have a very different
approach to a lot of this stuff and it's
it's honestly a lot easier like because
if you have a really strong math
background, like yeah, you'll just be
fine doing all the formal stuff. But the
thing is,
>> it's not going to tell you how to
actually do RL because none of the
format the formal math actually works.
>> And second of all, like if you don't
have a really good math background, it's
going to be really hard and you're still
not going to know how RL works. Whereas
if you just like are able to if you're
able to do the material that I've sent,
like it relies more on programming.
It's more accessible in a sense because
maybe your code's not as good as mine,
but if you stick to the way that I've
suggested you do things, at least it'll
be passively good. Um, and you'll
actually get RL working. Like you will
provably have RL working on a new
problem, a new environment that you've
made, several new environments of
increasing complexity that you've made.
Um, and you fill in the theoretical gaps
along the way. And the theoretical gaps
we're going to fill in aren't even the
same as the ones in the the formal
interest readard for instance because
it's like those are just really old and
bad models of a lot of problems.
>> Yeah.
>> It's mostly knowledge of like you know
newer more empirical models and what
they're based on.
Okay, I'm going to get you guys a sim
right now. That's going to be the goal.
Uh I'm going to see if I basically just
merge the drone swarm and the drone
racing environments.
>> Yeah, I think that would be good. I kind
of I really like the way you've done it
in
the the swarm one at the minute where
you just kind of just switch between
them. I think if we just go with that,
that would be great. It's a little
annoying because like the rings are
going to be task specific
>> and I also was going to put like
obstacles at some point. I think it
would be cool to put like obstacles know
we could just spawn like random spheres
some distance away from uh
>> just in case it's useful. I'll put in my
original like Python
uh collisions code in the development
channel cuz that that supports planes
and um
>> well planes are hard. Spheres are really
easy, right?
>> It's just a rad,
>> right?
>> Yeah. I sat and worked out all of the
linear algebra for it and it does work.
It's just not very
>> It's still quadratic. It's annoying on
hard and it I'm not envious of that
stuff.
>> Yeah, it took a while.
>> You know, there's not really a great way
to do planes. Cubes you can do very
easily. Cubes you just do a bounding
sphere, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And it's like pretty close.
the the original kind of plan back at
end of last year probably with drone was
getting it to kind of navigate
um environments and stuff. Uh we've kind
of switched more over to
kind of the the race. It was kind of
more of like an exploring drone before I
suppose.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> we can do that super easily in sim if
you guys want to.
I mean, think about it. We just add a
task. It's like get to the objective and
you're basically navigating through an
asteroid field, right?
>> Mhm.
The only thing is like the um
we have to change the ops a little bit
because it would be like you'd have to
know
probably what we should do is there
should just be like a ring buffer and
like a nearest buffer or something. So
you can see the nearest rings because
they have you need to actually know the
normal direction for those and that's
needed for racing. But everything else
is just like an obstacle buffer. So like
other drones are obstacles. Asteroids
would be like obstacles.
It's just like, "Hey, this is where it
is. This is how big it is. Don't hit
it."
>> Yeah,
>> I can do I can get something like that
working. So then that would be like a
navigation type thing. Like, you know,
get to this bowl on the other side of
the map and don't crash into any of
these obstacles.
>> Mhm.
>> Cool.
>> Yeah. I'm I'm looking back at the the
collision code now and there's some
stuff which I'm not fully sure about now
I look at it again because it is six
month old code but I think it it should
be all right.
>> Yeah.
Oh, the other the other thing we did
have originally which could be useful
when when and if we do uh perception
stuff is we we were able to uh train it
to look in a certain direction as well
as moving to a a place so the camera is
kind of facing in the right way.
>> Yeah, that might be useful.
Um, so that I can actually that I'm not
as concerned about because all I would
have to do for that is I would take the
current state based observations and I
would make them only appear within a
clone of vision. Right.
>> Right. Okay.
>> So, and then it's still the same state
estimation problem
>> as before, right? Like you still have to
just do the state estimation, but then
it should basically learn that it has to
turn toward stuff to see it
automatically.
>> So that's not super hard. That's That's
true.
>> I think we we were going We were hoping
were we trying to get it to fly
backwards or something? So, I can't
remember.
>> It has to spin and it like it takes a
while to spin. So, it's like
>> Yeah.
>> getting it to get new information like
that can be a little tricky. Not that
bad.
Okay. Articles got 28,000 views already.
posted like what 2 three hours ago.
>> Nice.
>> Well, hopefully we get a lot of new
people into uh reinforcement learning
with this and I will have to just
work on stuff
getting like work.
>> Yeah. When it probably be
>> Sorry, go on Finn.
>> I was just going to ask when did when
did you scene find this stuff? Like what
what's the what's the story there? When
did what
>> when did uh when did Yasine find this
stuff?
>> Oh, it was it's one of my other
followers apparently just like added me
with Puffer Lib when he cuz like he was
trying to do some RL thing. He just hops
around and does a ton of different
things and one of my followers like
said, "Oh yeah, you should check out
Joseph's Puffer Lib stuff."
>> Oh, nice.
>> So, I have I have grassroots marketing.
We just have Puffer Lib. We just have
>> we have some people that use puffer lip
and they like it apparently. So we're
very happy about that.
Um puffer lip could be way better than
it is now though. It can be way way
better. Going to do some applications on
the current version before I really go
back and look at that.
Okay. So,
I'm going to go use the bathroom and
grab coffee real quick and then I'm
going to see if I can actually code up
the uh the single sim.
I think I should be able to make a
decent dentonic today. Uh,
>> technically we could do
I'm going to see if we have like
entirely different step functions per
task or what cuz like technically
no I can't I can't actually make the
racing ends multi-agent because the
targets change when the drone goes
through them. It would be a cool thing
to have like a ton of drones flying the
course. But
>> yeah,
>> I mean, at least because it's PCGed for
now, like if you were to just write if
you were to just put all the rings down
at the same time, then you could do it.
>> Well, I mean, we could do that, right?
There's
>> they are all created at at the start.
It's like a set
>> set buffer. If we just put all the rings
down and then it just when it resets the
whole environment resets the force. Like
I could put all the drones in and just
like have them all do the same force at
the same time.
>> Yeah, it does that already. It just only
shows you them one by one or two by two,
I guess.
>> Okay.
>> Shouldn't be too bad.
>> You just have to keep track of which
ring each drone is at. We probably we
might need to make the map a bit larger
as well cuz like the collision checks
for for everything.
>> It's 10 by 10.
>> I think we we've kind of
>> Yeah.
>> We've just got kind of like a
>> uh the Zurich people.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
pretty big. I'm not sure exactly, but
bigger than 10 by 10 by 10.
Yeah,
>> it's probably like is it like 50 by 50
by 10 or something?
>> I'd imagine so. Yeah.
>> All right. Well, I'm going to see if I
can make us something cool out of this.
The other thing I was thinking about is
like if I wanted to put all the
different environments like together so
you can see some drones making a flag,
some drones doing racing and whatever.
Um, collision gets obnoxious if I do
that though.
It's super obnoxious.
>> I've just found just found it online.
The track is seven square gates arranged
in a volume of 30x 30 by 8 m and the
total track length is 75 m.
>> 30 by 30 by 8. Yeah, we'll just match
that then.
>> Yeah.
>> Mhm.
>> All right. I will try to just get
working on this. If you guys can get the
drone working, I will see if I can get
like a super stable super general
whatever drone whatever course demo
thing and like if the goal is like if we
just get a really good policy that does
this then any perturbation of drone and
course should just be solvable
instantly. So you end up with like
really robust self-correcting policies
if you do this. That's the idea.
>> Mhm. We were working today a bit as well
on improving the kind of like
integration part. So using is it RK4 fin
instead of oilers.
>> Yeah,
>> that would be Yes, that will be good.
Please do not do forward oiler on uh
>> I actually do not know how stable RK4 is
even going to be. Like you guys are
probably going to write want to write
something to quantify that
>> like the measurements are going to be
noisy.
It seems like the code for RK4 is going
to be pretty about five times anyway.
>> Yeah.
>> Isn't it Isn't it pretty short? I
thought RK4 is pretty short.
>> I mean, I think it depends how you write
it, but it's not it's not short for
sure.
>> For like this is right here.
Is this not it?
[Music]
>> Hold on. There's a stream delay.
>> Or is it just like RK4 for one specific
formula?
>> I don't think.
>> Yeah, it's not massive. It's not
massive.
>> This is all I think this is literally
all it is, guys. I think the one that's
annoying there's a fifth order meth
method. It's a bit longer,
>> right? Okay. We were just doing what
they did in the Zurich paper, right,
Finn? Or was it from somewhere else?
>> Uh I don't know what they're using.
>> Definitely don't like go
>> because like a lot of these methods are
quite simple, but they like some of the
implementations have a bunch of just
garbage pre-proc macros for like all
sorts of dumb features you don't care
about.
Yeah. Now there there are a lot of these
here. RK4
the C version.
Uh this thing does not
Oh, here a C version.
RK4.C.
Yeah. Here. Right here. This look isn't
enough.
Send this to you guys.
Put it in the gen.
Oops.
Put this in Discord.
Okay. For
this seems like this seems fine.
>> Yeah, it's not bad.
>> Cool. Have a look it up then. I'm going
to go grab some coffee so I can uh do
this and then
time is at 2. So I've got 3 hours to 12.
I'm going to meeting at 5 today. Like 3
hours to just crank on the sim. I should
be able to get you guys like at least
something for then. And then over the
next, you know, few days, the idea will
be that this will get like way more
stable cuz obviously there's going to be
a perf hit to uh like there's going to
be a per hit initially when we're
training on all these different
randomized drones. The only thing I need
from you guys is um any errors or things
that you spot in the init drone physics
like the scaling look.
>> All right.
>> Yeah, I was looking through that
earlier. Um, there's a couple of bits
I'm I'm not completely convinced with,
but I'll I'll
>> don't assume I'm correct here that could
be completely stupid.
>> Okay,
>> cool.
>> Uh, before I hop off, there anybody else
in this because there a whole bunch of
people in voice. Anybody else here had
questions or thanks?
You can say hi. I normally don't bite
unless you submit lm slop to buffer 11
PR.
Guess
not. All right. Uh, I'm hopping off of
this. I will be still streaming and
yeah, we'll see if I can get you guys a
thing on this and just hit me up in the
chat if you have anything to discuss.
>> We'll probably be around for another
couple of hours tonight and then we'll
be back tomorrow.
>> Yeah. Good luck with the uh the drone.
>> Thanks.
>> Okay. You too. Bye.
>> Cheers, buzzer.
>> All right. Well, that was fun.
Whole bunch of new people in Puffer.
Holy.
Yeah, look at all this. July 9th.
July 10th.
Look at all these people. It's a good
time to remind people to start puffer on
GitHub. It's free and it really helps.
Just star puffer. Star repo helps star
puffer li. Um,
I'm going to be right back. I'm going to
grab myself more coffee and then we are
going to actually finally build the sim
instead of yapping all day. But we have
had some pretty cool growth. So, it's
worth it. But I'll be I'll be right
back. Don't let me forget my mic.
Okay.
Just
the repo real quick.
Oh, 2.4K. Holy.
That's some growth.
That's really nice to see. Look at this.
2390. Holy.
Good to see the hard work paying off a
little bit.
Now we will actually build some sims.
I promised this many hours ago, but now
we will actually build some.
How bad could this possibly be? Right?
Have 400 lines of code here.
Maybe what I do is I keep the drone
I keep the drone swarm code,
but that one's at least multi- aent,
right? I already refactor that one to be
multi- aent.
Okay, I know what we'll do. So, we do
Okay.
simulation properties.
Uh these get deleted, right?
These are already in the main file.
Few observations is fine.
It's fine.
This is actually pretty clean.
So, all we really need is the ring
buffer from here, right?
So when we init this we have to allocate
to allocate the ring buffer.
And that's pretty much it.
ring has a position.
It's actually
why don't we just zero the whole thing,
right?
Yes.
Okay. So, we zero out all the rings.
Now, the observations,
the observations are going to need to be
slightly different.
Yeah, we need to add in the rings.
We can just do the next ring. Like the
next one ring for now.
the one ring to roll them all.
Two next ring
two
per
Wait,
what?
How's this make any sense?
Oh yeah, we're just going to do the
current
This this
these are all of our ring observations.
Q inverse
ring buffer ring index.
Uh we actually
it's going to be drone ring index.
Definitely want this.
Okay, so now we have our ring
and now let's get the plot to this ring.
Heading off stream so I can focus on
physics. Yeah, sounds good. You don't
have to be watching this 24/7. Just drop
in when you have questions or things.
I'll get it working for you. I'm not
promising it'll be done today, but it
will be done relatively soon.
I've been pretty lazy with my uh
streaming hours.
We don't need either of these facts,
right?
Yeah. We just need these two.
Okay, so for drone swarm,
we're going to add plus six before I
forget to do this
because I added six observations.
It's cool.
I think this is good.
Now, when we do reset here,
we're going to pick a task. Okay.
And what we're going to do is
I wait these
and for now we'll just do it the simple
way
task
race
and then this is going to have oops
All right,
you have set target.
If it's a race
then
then we need to do this generation
stuff. Yeah,
we need to do this generation stuff.
Let's see if we clean this up a little
bit. It's kind of a mess, right?
buffer on one.
If
whatever we do this for now
for
agents
get something like this.
So, if it's a racing task, we do this.
In some way, help me understand this.
And how can I help you? I'm a simple
curious guy. I just released a whole
bunch of material on everything I do.
There's like a whole introduction to
reinforcement learning and exactly like
step by step on how to get up to speed
and how to get involved with all of the
dev. It's on uh on X.
So, people always ask me that. I finally
put together like a comprehensive guide
and it has there's a companion article
if you're lacking on uh the fundamentals
of you know before even you get to this.
I will put my X on the uh in the chat.
It's a much easier read than a lot of
the other materials in the space as
well. Like it's designed to be fairly
accessible.
Yeah. Of course,
the hope with a lot of the educational
stuff, right, cuz like this room and the
content here is not educational by
default, okay? Like the main thing, the
main thing that you're uh seeing here is
this is advanced reinforcement learning
live. Um,
now the thing is we've actually made it
a lot easier than ever before to get
into this space and to help with that.
So some of the educational material now
is out there to like help people get
into this space and actually help us
push forward all this research
definitely to go through this get back
to you. Thank you.
I mean literally all the contributors
here like the only difference pretty
much is uh the ones who actually stuck
around and went through the material and
and wrote some environments uh have
gotten good and been able to do this. I
haven't had really anybody who's done
that stuff and actually taken the advice
I've given and not been able to do this.
You have to have some basic level of
programming maturity. That's the only
thing I can't fix. I have my programming
guide on like how to learn that stuff
quicker than normal, but that's the only
thing I can't just like give you the
information on.
You have to be able to at least write
like basic low-level code and not make a
mess.
I say is I have like this total mess of
do while
hey not perfect.
All right. So
that's going to set the course.
We got to do the ring check, right?
Did we got to do the ring check right
out of bounds?
Yes. Down here.
Oh my gosh, another one of these.
I love the headphones are broken bots.
Hey, I couldn't pay for a
an LLM that does I couldn't pay for
audio captioning for my LLM. Can you
please do my scam job for me
to get rid of that?
One of these days I'm gonna end up
banning somebody who's not actually a
bot, but I'm pretty sure on that one.
Okay, so this is the logic we need here.
Check ring.
Yeah, like this, right?
Delta reward.
You like this? Maybe.
tips on staying focused. I don't
is the thing. I actually don't.
This is not long periods of time being
focused. This is me yakking around on
Discord for a bit and doing like a few
hours of actual work in an entire day
here. Typically what I do is and uh is I
try to get good sleep, I get good
exercise, I eat well. These are very
important. And then I pick an
interesting project that I actually want
to work on. I work on it really hard for
a few weeks like you know 80 somewhere
between 70 and 90 hours a week until I
like solve the problem and burn myself
out in the process.
I work like relatively normal hours,
somewhere between 30 and 50 hours a week
for like a few weeks until I'm like
recovered and then I do it again on
another problem.
I work in cycles.
Honestly, the worst thing for my focus
lately has just been that uh I've had a
couple injuries that have prevented me
from doing like the all the types of
exercise that I'd like to do. So that's
been like kind of sucky.
But yeah, this is right here. Like these
few weeks I've kind of just been
chilling.
Oh, also I cannot focus at all on bad
code. If you make me read like over
abstracted shitty code that takes
forever to figure out what anything
like, I just won't. Same thing with like
boring papers. I cannot force myself to
read them. So,
part of the reason I keep things simple
is because it helps other people and uh
just makes the tools way better in
general, but also I literally can't work
any other way cuz it's just boring.
I have uh I've given advice on like how
to spin up in any specific area and like
the way I suggest people to get into RL
is one that's quite engaging and uh
generally won't have that many problems
with it
unless you try to read all the papers
and like the read these papers block in
a row which But hope it's obvious that
you're not supposed to just do that.
Welcome.
The streaming actually helps me stay
focused as well. Believe it or not, why
I do it cuz like all the time I spend
talking to chat is uh time I'm not like
spacing out staring into nothing being
bored. So it evens out. It's more fun as
well.
I didn't find drone flag. It's drone
swarm.
I'm also messing with that right now.
So, but yeah, it's drones for it's not
on the website, but it is in puffer lip
like the puffer lip 3.0 source on
GitHub. It is there.
It's not just a flag environment by the
like they can form a sphere. They can
follow a target. I just did the flag
demo for 4th of July. We have way more
stuff than just that.
If anyone watching happens to be in
drone space, we are looking for
contracts. There's business side stuff
as well.
I can't run puffer from source
but can load from pip install.
Well, you have to tell me like I can't
run it. You have to tell me what that
means.
Okay. I had a meeting confirmed now for
four. It wants meetings today. Lovely.
set myself an alarm. We'll get it done
in an hour and a half anyways. We'll
have like a prototype of this working.
Yeah.
Anything
else?
I don't think so.
I think this is the base of everything
that we want here, right?
I'll have to figure out like bugs and
stuff, but
Max Bell.
Was there no Max Bell?
Strong Max.
Oh yeah, this is not going to um
that's all stuff I can fine-tune easily.
Let's get it working first.
This is agent not drone.
Q inverse is already defined apparently.
It's fine.
Ring DX.
Wait, what?
You know, this is fine.
Ring IDX.
Forgot this
undeclared identifier drone.
It's probably agent.
This is agent ring index.
Oops.
Episodic return.
Oh, it's the drone.
So term
imagine you got any me debug stuff you
want me to answer that
I can work miracles but I can't read
minds.
Hey Weston. How's it going man?
We have content that you will be
interested in.
Check this out.
This is actually perfectly suited to
you.
My advice for programming and ML. All my
advice in one spot.
Ultra opinionated guide to uh
reinforcement learning. There you go. 25
pages of content, educational content
with uh tons of references.
Merry Christmas.
First time here
spotted.
Honestly, one of the things I write in
my in my programming guide is to not
worry too much about the IDE.
Like I like neim code is fine. Just
don't use cursor.
All right,
we'll fix that. Trying to run puffer
tank 3.
Type error.
That looks like a permissioning error,
man.
Yeah, that looks like a permissioning
error.
If you want, you can try just the basic
UV setup
in uh in WSL. should work.
What you think is the right way to
install puffer through pip or copying
source from git. So if you just want to
use puffer liib, right? If you want to
use puffer lib, the pip package has
everything you need, right?
If you want to dev on pufferlib, like if
you want to contribute to puffer lib or
you're doing like custom environment
work and stuff like that, you're not
just like using what is there,
then you uh you either clone or ideally
fork the repository.
Thinking of trying new are the shortcuts
hard? No, they're not hard to get used
to. Look, literally you do this.
Oops. Where is it?
Is this not a neoim?
Is it like different command
vim tutor? I haven't checked this for so
long.
Oh, tutor. Enter.
All right. So, here you go. This is
where they moved it to.
Tutor.
All right. And now it gives you
everything.
This is your reference. There used to be
an interactive tutorial that was better.
I know where it went.
But like I really don't have that many
shortcuts I use.
It's kind of just a text editor.
Trying to create a few M then yeah then
you use it from source.
Getting the config is difficult.
The stream is at the same as my X
handle. It's Jaru as 5341. Same handle
uh on Twitch.
Getting the So, I don't have a crazy
config. It's I just don't have one.
And you actually can copy mine if you
want from uh it's in Puffer Tank. My
config's public.
So, this is all I have. I have two
plugins. All right. I've got uh Super
Maven, which is the single line code
complete that you're seeing. And I've
got seven sheet, which add which adds
some highlights cuz Python highlighting
sucks.
I've got like very basic Vim stuff here.
That's it. Half this stuff I don't even
care about or use. And then all the rest
of this is just color scheme. All right.
This is all just color scheme. That's
it. This is all that's here. I used Vim
with no plugins for like seven years.
It's fine.
What I break here?
Oh yeah, compute observations. That's
see
actually if you want to try it here. So
if you just go to puffer
and you start the puffer on your way
into the here because you should start
the repo to help me for free.
Uh and then you go to here.
Okay, there's puffer tank.
This is the Docker, the exact Docker
image I'm using for all of my
development. And if you check right
here, here's my Vim file.
So, it's included in the Docker by
default, or you can just copy that one
file.
ring buffer. I need to set max rings
Okay, we still
uh is the max velocity normalization or
something.
It's weird.
Max moves, max rings.
No, I didn't forget anything there.
Trying UV sync.
UV should work.
It's giving me errors from source. Ah,
lovely.
So, uh, the thing that you might have to
do for that,
hang on.
Um,
try pip installing setup tools 70.
Try setup tool 70. There's not much I
can do about that specific one, Magic,
which is why we have it set up in the
container. If you try to if you try to
UV from source, like there's versioning
hell to pay and it's because Python
tools suck because Python devs like
sniff glue or whatever. I don't know.
Can you give me a brief idea about this
research? Well, that was probably a a
lovely entry point to this stream, but
yeah, welcome. So, uh I do all sorts of
reinforcement learning work. Uh you can
see a lot of our demos on puffer.ai.
We have a lot of games. We have drones.
We have autonomous driving. We've got
tons and tons of different work in here.
It's just general purpose really high
performance simulation and reinforcement
learning tools, algorithms, and the
like.
and I stream all the dev on it. And uh
we have a whole bunch of people in the
community who build stuff with us.
Error with no no greater than equal to.
You need to do setup tools like equals
70.
If you do greater than or equal to,
it'll just keep your latest version.
There was a regression in setup tools
that'll break stuff. All right,
this is why I have the docker magic
because from source right from source
you have to deal with python versioning
hell and um
like I can it's technically yes it is
possible to fix all this crap but like
it's just not fun.
It's it's Python. like
you're fighting the language in their
tooling. I've never seen like I don't
think there's any other language that
constantly breaks their poor build
system for their packaging so often.
Is it possible with Docker? Yes, of
course. So the Docker literally what the
Docker is is it's just an installation
of Puffer that's known to work from
source that's just packaged for you
so that you don't deal with this crap.
This is why I still use Docker instead
of UV, right? Like, yeah, in a sane
world, you just be able to grab UV and
get your setup and everything would be
good. But because Python tooling sucks,
uh, UV is often not heavy enough to
actually just make your thing work
because, oh no, you know, different
setup tools version breaks the build.
What is the command?
Uh, it's on it's on the website. You
just you just clone the uh the puffer
tank repo and then you docker sh test
and it'll just pull the it'll just pull
the docker down for you like the
pre-built image. It'll just pull it down
and it'll launch it for you and you'll
have your full docker.
It adds all our launch args so that you
know you can render through docker
have access to GPUs. It's a really long
run command. So we just give you the
repo.
What's the ultimate purpose of this
stuff? You're building some application.
So you can think of Puffer as a private
lab. We do core research on
reinforcement learning which is just
general purpose. How do we make neural
nets learn through interaction with
either simulators or the real world?
It's a very very broad problem space.
And then we do applications either on
our own or for specific companies,
right, in a variety of different areas.
We've done stuff in animation
generation. We've done stuff in finance.
We've done stuff with other research
labs. You can see here we're working on
some drones. Well, you can't see here
because I haven't run it recently, but
I'm working on drone stuff at the
moment. There's stuff in logistics we're
dealing with. There's stuff with other
labs we're doing. There's just tons and
tons and tons of different problems in
autonomous learning through interaction.
issue with VS Code 1.1.0.
Yeah, I think Weston that's not a puffer
specific issue though, right? Like
that's just that's VS Code in general,
right?
Yes, this thing has ns in it.
There's the divide by zero.
Max velocity max omega.
They broke dev containers. Lovely.
You see why I don't like introducing
tools? Like as much as possible, I just
rely on the minimal set of tools because
it's like, oh, I'll just use VS Code.
Like everyone uses that and then it
breaks and it's like you have to go
spend your time doing that instead of
working on the thing that you should be
working on.
So it's like I basically just assume
that any tool I'm going to want to use
is going to break at some point and it's
going to be a pain. And if you stack up
enough of those, then you'll just spend
all your time working on debugging
tools. Then congratulations, you're a
fang engineer.
You can collect your fat paycheck for
doing nothing.
I see. So this is the problem.
Are you available for a Discord
conversation? About what? Magic.
I can hop in there for a second, but I'm
going to keep working on this while I do
And that's
show issue. Yeah, sure. We can do that.
Hey, how's it going?
Uh, I don't think your mic is working.
It should not be on my end. I There's no
green circle around you if you're
talking.
>> Ah,
>> there you go.
>> Can you hear me?
>> Yeah, now it works. Hey, how's it going?
>> Okay, I'm good. How are you
>> doing? All right.
>> So, it was uh it was nice discussion
when you know everybody kind of uh
talking about different things.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay. Let me let me share my
screen.
Okay.
I saw
What
screen?
Uh,
I'm not seeing any
what?
Yeah, I'm clicking on the share screen
button, but
it's an HD.
Okay, let me I think close this
application and reopen it for some
reason. not showing anything
agency 64.
So why is uh this is still broken
null pointer type drone.
here
inside chars.
Oh, flag colors
of I
64 agents. So you fold at 322
and there's return Oh,
>> are you guys hear me now?
>> Yeah.
Uh, is it visible?
>> Let's see what you're Let's see what
you're looking at if I fix your bug real
quick.
Yeah.
You're showing
>> this is
>> you're only sharing the Discord
application.
>> Oh, really?
>> You have to share your screen.
>> There's an application window.
>> Make a selection.
It says share all application windows.
this one.
>> What's
still uh for some reason
enter screen. Okay, gotcha.
Okay, I think now
Okay.
Uh it's uh it's it's visible now.
>> Yeah. Let's see. So you have
Yeah. See, we're installing.
Okay.
So,
>> hey, why are you installing puffer lip
common?
>> I have no idea. I I just do like UV
sync.
>> No, I mean uh I don't I have to build
because I was trying uh the example.
>> Yeah, but where where did you see the
install common?
Common is a very heavy thing. Did you
see somewhere in the docs that you
should like?
>> No, no. I I saw like if it it use u
the UV. So my first instinct is kind of
uh sync to get all the missing
libraries.
>> The sync just install and
>> come on just automatically installs
common and that's just you being stupid.
I don't think it would do that though.
UV sync.
>> Well, I don't know if you have a clean
environment. What if you just UV pip
install dot
>> E
dot
dot dot dot like period.
>> Okay.
If the UV dev can't even write good
tools, then I don't I don't know like
language is a lost cause.
>> Yep.
>> It's actually installing something now.
>> Yeah.
Like honestly, the Python tooling is
just terrible and like they keep making
it worse.
>> Yeah, I think u
like
>> like
>> for some reason
Yeah, I think for some reason Enterprise
does not like uh
Python for some reason.
>> Well, enterprise is generally like
terrible, terrible code in general. So I
don't trust anything out of Enterprise.
>> Um yeah, that's true. But um you know
and and probably because they don't
spend that much money um to Python and
that's why it's for some reason it's not
generalized how you know other other
programming languages right now. It's a
net java or something.
Yeah, I think yeah, it's uh it's
resolved my issue looks like. Yep.
>> Can you run it? Like can you like puffer
train puffer breakout?
It's like puffer breakout
>> r e
think I had to add something. You see
what that does?
>> Because the mag.
>> Yeah, I know what I had to do.
>> It's
right.
>> If you don't have Yeah,
you miss device.
Mhm. Yep. It works fine.
>> I don't know what I'm I don't know what
I'm supposed to do about that type of
stuff if it's like UV being stupid. Like
I don't know why the hectic was randomly
grabbing the common option out of
everything. Like if it's just going to
go randomly install optimals that are
way heavier and require other
dependencies then like I don't know what
I'm supposed to do about that. That's
like the Python ecosystem just being
done.
>> Yeah. No, I understand. So one quick
question. Let's say I I'm trying to uh
build my own custom environment. Uh on
that case uh if I use you know buffer
command then do I need to put my
environment inside um ocean?
>> Yes. Um if you the reason I suggest
doing it this way is because otherwise
you have to handle your own C extension
build system which unless you really
know what you're doing you don't want to
deal with your own C extension build
system. It is incredibly painful and
makes it's like an undocumented buggy
mess and it's because of Python. So like
you're gonna fight like language um
language level and like systems tooling
level issues if you do it yourself. You
can absolutely do it, but like
you can make it a lot it's a lot easier
if you just basically copy our template
and then do like work from there.
>> Yeah. because I was um I was kind of
play around with the buffer
uh importable.
>> It looks like I had to deal with
everything
from the beginning. So that's why I'm
kind of uh
>> you can sim if you really want it like
let's say that you have your own
environment project, right? And you want
to have it in its own repo and stuff.
>> If you really want to, you can probably
just sim link it,
>> right? You have your puffer installed.
You can probably just sim link it in
ocean. You probably still have to add
like the one line to environment, but
you can keep your environment code
separate if you have to.
>> Okay. And I can use a buffer command
with it.
>> As long as it's in as long as you either
have your environment or you have what
should I think a sim link in there
should work just as well.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Yeah. That that that will make my
life. We will eventually figure out a
way to make this experience better so
that you can like more easily have
environments in custom places. But the
thing is like
>> you have to at some point you need to
invoke an extension build system in
order to get the bindings to work in
Python and uh that's really obnoxious,
right?
No, I I was kind of u trying out some uh
so I I need importable because you know
I'm trying to do something let's say so
every time I come here and I'm I need to
do all the commands instead of it's
trying to build something as a platform
let's say I will interact from
uh let's say a website and I can kind of
build general purpose uh thing so that I
don't have to do everything manually
each time.
>> Y
>> so that's why I was looking looking for
something that that I can integrate with
APIs like fast API or some other things
like importable here. So yeah, you can
that's the reason I was absolutely all
there like if you're relatively new to
like the RL stuff though it the easiest
thing is going to be to play with stuff
the way that we do it in our own
development first and then after that
decide if you want to do all that other
stuff right like I know it's very
tempting to be like oh yeah let me just
put this into something I'm familiar
with first but like the way we do stuff
in our own internal dev is very very
good for RL and um if you want to do it
your own way, that's fine. But you
should absolutely like understand how
we're doing stuff first because RL is
not trivial. And like there are a bunch
of moving parts. We've reduced it to as
few moving parts as possible. But if you
don't understand how those ones that are
left uh are working together, you're not
going to be in for a fun time.
>> Yep. That that's why what I faced right
now.
>> Yep. So
>> that then I I I changed that plan and
trying to understand as deep I can like
>> kind of recreating existing environment
what we have on ocean
>> and then maybe start with like the
better of a time you're going to have
right the entire puffer lip source for
all this that you're going to touch is
only a few a few thousand lines it's a
very short and succinct library uh it
gives you a lot a lot of tools with not
a lot of code and you can absolutely
hack on it, but you're going to have a
way better time if you understand how
and why we're doing stuff first because
it's not the way that you will like it's
basically not the way anybody else does
stuff and there's a very good reason for
it,
>> right?
>> I understood. Yeah.
>> Like this is a this is like this is not
just like an out there library that does
weird things for the sake of doing weird
things. This is like reinforcement
learning got nowhere for 10 years. Um,
we had to completely rethink how it was
done in order to make everything fast
and sane and simple. That's why it is
the way that it is.
>> It looks like
>> it looks like you have this working now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, thank you. Thank you for
your time. Yeah.
>> All right. Yeah. I'm gonna hop off this,
right?
>> Okay. All right.
>> Okay. Uh, looks like I got to go take a
call.
I'm going to go take a call, I think,
real quick. Um,
and then I've got two more meetings
afterwards.
I'm going to give it like another
Let me at least see if I can just fix
this one last bug and then I'll go see
about my poll.
Why is this thing nearest?
Yes.
Okay. The intensity is n
max RPM because max RPM.
Oh, I don't call it a drone dummy.
What's wrong with this?
Asan me copy.
Do I have this right?
Is it not getting is not getting cold or
something?
Is this not calic?
Oh yeah, this doesn't cal.
Okay, lovely.
This actually runs now.
Now,
can we train this on a specific task?
Oh, we need to adjust the binding file,
right? Cuz like we added max rings.
So, we'll just do
X rings.
Oops. All right, I got to go take a
call, it turns out. So, um, let me
answer this one question real quick.
Revisited my rain, uh, I revisited my
implementation of the rainbow paper and
got it
to work with Puffer Lib. Have not tested
it. What do you think I should do next?
Yeah. um get it on to puffer lib and run
it on like just pong and breakout
basically. Just get the really basic
environments working and then we'll go
next steps from there. That would be
yeah once you have something like that I
will jump in and I will help more. I got
to run yeah I got like three business
meetings.
I'd like to be streaming more stuff but
hey got to grow the company. Um I will
be back probably tomorrow. What's
tomorrow? Saturday. Yeah, I'll be back
tomorrow first thing with more stuff. If
you like what you see, if you're new
around here, yada yada, all the things.
Um, puffer.ai.
Start the repo helps me out for free.
Join Discord to get involved. Follow me
on X for lots and lots of reinforcement
learning content.